&gt;&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES, YOU HAVE TO SEE
TO BELIEVE. AND WITNESS HISTORY
AS IT UNFOLDS. WHEN THE NEWS IS
BREAKING,
NEWSROOM OF THE WASHINGTON POST.
WE EXPLAIN WHAT IS HAPPENING AND
WHY IT MATTERS. THANK YOU FOR
CHOOSING TO WATCH THE HEADLINES
AS THEY ARE BEING WRITTEN BY OUR
JOURNALISTS. YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE
WITH A SPECIAL OFFER  AT
WASHINGTONPOSTLIVE.COM/WATCH.
SUBSCRIBING TO THAT LINK LETS
EVERYONE HEAR FROM  THE FRONT
LINES TO THE CONTROL ROOM KNOW
THAT YOU CARE ABOUT OUR
CONTINUED EFFORTS TO INFORM THE
PUBLIC PROTECT THE FIRST
AMENDMENT, AND FOSTER A HEALTHY
DEMOCRACY. WE COULD NOT DO THIS
WITHOUT YOU.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THE RUSSIAN MILITARY HAS
BEGUN THE BRUTAL ASSAULT ON THE
PEOPLE OF UKRAINE. WITHOUT
PROVOCATION, WITHOUT
JUSTIFICATION, WITHOUT
NECESSITY. THIS IS A
PREMEDITATED ATTACK. PUTIN CHOSE
THIS WAR. AND NOW, HE AND HIS
COUNTRY WILL BEAR THE
CONSEQUENCES.
&gt;&gt;&gt; OMICRON AND ALL THE VARIANTS
HAVE HAD A PROFOUND IMPACT ON
THE PSYCHE OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. THE ONLY WAY WE PUT IT
BEHIND US
IS IF MORE AMERICANS GET
VACCINATED. AND IF WE WERE TO
EVER EXPERIENCE UNCHECKED
INFLATION OVER THE LONG-TERM,
THAT WOULD POSE A REAL CHALLENGE
TO OUR ECONOMY.
&gt;&gt; MMES. SPEAKER, THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT BIDEN DELIVERS HIS
FIRST STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
TONIGHT. IT COMES AMID A WAR IN
EUROPE. TWO YEARS
PANDEMIC AT A TIME WHEN
AMERICANS ARE WORRIED ABOUT
INFLATION AND MONEY. EVEN AS THE
ECONOMY SHOWS SIGNS OF GROWTH
AND HEALTH. THIS IS A SPECIAL
REPORT FROM THE NEWSROOM OF THE
WASHINGTON POST.  I AM LIBBY
CASEY. IT IS A CHALLENGING TIME
TO ASSESS THE STATE OF THE
UNION. PRESIDENT BIDEN AND HIS
TEAM VIEW TONIGHT'S PRIMETIME
ADDRESS AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
HIGHLIGHT ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND
SET A CLEAR AND OPTIMISTIC
AGENDA LEADING TO THE NOVEMBER
MIDTERMS. BUT, WAR IN UKRAINE
HAS SHIPPED DID THE FOCUS OF
TONIGHT'S SPEECH AND DONATION.
WITH ME TONIGHT, RHONDA COLDEN
ON CAPITOL HILL, JOYCE CO.,
OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE. HANNAH
JEWELL REPORTING ON THE
REPUBLICAN RESPONSE AND JAMES
HOLMAN, HERE IN THE WASHINGTON
POST NEWSROOM. LET'S START WITH
POLITICS REPORTER JOYCE CO.,
LIGHT OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE.
JOYCE, THE WORLD IS WATCHING.
PRESIDENT BIDEN TONIGHT. WHAT IS
AT STAKE IN
THIS MOMENT?
ALL RIGHT. WE WILL GO BACK TO
JOYCE JUST A MOMENT. PICKING US
BACK UP HIS RHONDA COLDEN ON
CAPITOL HILL. RHONDA, YOU WERE
AT THE CENTER OF THE ENERGY AND
THE ACTION TOOK A LET'S TALK
ABOUT FIRST, WHAT IS ON THE LINE
TONIGHT FOR PRESIDENT BIDEN, AND
THEN, LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT
CAPITOL HILL IS LIKE IN THIS
MOMENT. FIRST OFF, WHAT IS IN
STORE FOR PRESIDENT BIDEN?
&gt;&gt; I THINK WHAT IS EXPECTED
TONIGHT FOR PRESIDENT BIDEN IS
HE IS GOING TO HAVE TO STRIKE A
BALANCE. STRIKE A BALANCE TO
WHERE HE DISCUSSES HIS DOMESTIC
AGENDA. THE THINGS THAT HAVE
PASSED, THE SUCCESSES HIS
ADMINISTRATIONS HAVE HAD HER ON
THE HILL. WHILE ALSO LOOKING
FORWARD TO SOME OF THE THINGS HE
WANTS THE HILL TO ACCOMPLISH IN
THE SHORT-TERM. AND OF COURSE
RIGHT NOW, UKRAINE IS THE NUMBER
1 TOPIC ON THE HILL. THAT IS
WHAT IS DOMINATING THE MOOD HERE
TODAY. I RECENTLY SPOKE TO TWO
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE FOREIGN
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE. DAVIS IS A
LENIENCY SARAH JACOBS. THEY WERE
BOTH IN UKRAINE IN JANUARY WHEN
THERE WAS A CONGRESSIONAL
DELEGATION VISITING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND THEY
SAID, NO DOUBT, UKRAINE NEEDS TO
BE A FOCUS IN THIS SPEECH THAT
WE ARE WAITING FOR IN ABOUT AN
HOUR. AND SARAH JACOBS, SHE TOLD
ME, THIS IS A DOMESTIC AGENDA.
PEOPLE MAY SAY, WELL, BIDEN
NEEDS TO CONCENTRATE ON SOME OF
THESE BIG ISSUES, LIKE
INFLATION, LIKE A GAS PRICES.
BUT TO HER, SHE SAID, HER
CONSTITUENTS ARE ASKING HER
ABOUT THE USE OF THE MILITARY IN
THIS REGION. AND WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT. THAT MAKES IT A DOMESTIC
ISSUE. SO, NUMBERS HERE, THEY
WANT TO HEAR MORE ABOUT THE NEXT
STEPS ON UKRAINE. WE ARE
EXPECTING TO HEAR THAT FROM THE
PRESIDENT. AND IN TERMS OF JUST
SOME LOCAL COLOR HERE AND THE
MOON, IT IS QUIET WHERE I AM. I
AM WITH MOST MEMBERS OF THE
MEDIA WHO ARE BROADCASTING LIVE
TONIGHT. USUALLY, WE ARE UP IN
STATUARY HALL, WHICH IS OF
COURSE, NEAR THE HOUSE CHAMBER.
BECAUSE OF COVERT. BECAUSE OF
SECURITY CONCERNS, THAT IS NOT A
PLACE FOR MEDIA RIGHT NOW. SO,
WE ARE ALL KIND OF GATHERED
HERE, TALKING TO MEMBERS AS THEY
COME BY. IN TERMS OF UKRAINE,
WHAT YOU ARE PROBABLY GOING TO
SEE ONCE WE SEE THE PICTURES
FROM THE CHAMBER, MANY MEMBERS
ARE WEARING RIBBONS AND
HANDKERCHIEFS, THAT ARE IN THE
UKRAINIAN FLAG COLORS OF BLUE
AND YELLOW. I HAVE SEEN FEMALE
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE DRESSED IN
BLUE AND YELLOW. TO SHOW A SIDE
OF SUPPORT. YOU ARE PROBABLY
GOING TO SEE THAT WHEN WE DO SEE
THOSE IMAGES OUT OF THE CHAMBER.
THERE IS ALSO SECURITY CONCERNS
HERE TONIGHT OF COURSE. OUTSIDE
THE CAPITAL IS SURROUNDED WITH
FENCING. IT IS TEMPORARY. THE
CHIEF OF THE CAPITOL HILL POLICE
IS SAYING. IT WILL LAST FOR THE
NEXT FEW DAYS. IT IS ALSO UP
BECAUSE OF ANTICIPATED
DEMONSTRATIONS THAT MIGHT OCCUR
WITH THE TRUCKER CONVOY THAT WAS
IN CANADA. SO, SECURITY IS TIGHT
HERE OF COURSE. THE CAPITAL
POLICE AS WELL AS METRO POLICE
ARE SURROUNDING THIS AREA AND NO
ONE IS ACTUALLY ALLOWED IN THE
CAPITAL RIGHT NOW. OTHER THAN
THOSE ATTENDING THOSE SPEECH IN
JUST A FEW MEMBERS OF THE MEDIA.
THAT IS SORT OF THE MOODY RIGHT
NOW. WE ARE ALSO GOING TO SEE
WHEN YOU DO SEE THOSE IMAGES
COMING OUT OF THE CHAMBER, YOU
ARE GOING TO SEE SOMETHING WE
HAVE NOT SEEN IN A WHILE, WHICH
IS, POTENTIALLY MEMBERS WILL BE
WEARING MASKS. RIGHT NOW, MASKS
ARE OPTIONAL ON THE HOUSE FLOOR.
THAT IS A BIG SHIFT OVER THE
LAST TWO YEARS. MASKS HAVE BEEN
REQUIRED. RIGHT NOW, THEY ARE
NOT. THAT IS SOMETHING I AM SURE
WILL BE TALKED ABOUT ONCE YOU
START SEEING WHO IS WEARING A
MASK, WHO IS NOT WEARING A MASK.
BUT THAT IS ONE SIGN THAT THINGS
ARE SOMEWHAT RETURNING TO NORMAL
HERE ON CAPITOL HILL.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLVIN, THANK YOU SO
MUCH. AS RHONDA LAID OUT FOR US,
UKRAINE WILL BE A MAJOR FOCUS OF
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S SPEECH
TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt;&gt; IT IS AROUND 3:00 IN THE
MORNING RIGHT NOW IN KYIV.  I
WANT TO BRING IN JAMES HOHMANN
TO UPDATE US ON THE LATEST
WASHINGTON POST REPORTING ON THE
FIGHTING OVER THE LAST 24 HOURS.
JAMES.
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, IT WAS A DAY OF
REGROUPING FOR THE RUSSIAN
MILITARY. THEY FIRED SEVERAL
MISSILES THAT KYIV. AIMED FOR
THE TV TOWER THAT PROVIDES A LOT
OF THE MEDIA COVERAGE TO THE
CAPITAL CITY. THEY HIT THAT, BUT
THEY ALSO HIT A HOLOCAUST
MEMORIAL, KILLING FIVE. LOTS OF
FIERY IMAGES JUST NORTH OF KYIV
ON THIS MAJOR ROAD ARTERY. THERE
IS A CONWAY THAT IS 40 MILES
LONG. IT'S ABOUT 20 MILES
OUTSIDE OF KYIV. AS THE SUN IS
ABOUT TO ARRIVE IN UKRAINE'S
CAPITAL, THERE IS FEAR, A
POTENTIAL SIEGE OF THIS CITY,
THAT IS SOMETHING AKIN TO WHAT
WE HAVE BEEN SEEING IN RECENT
DAYS AND THE SECOND BIGGEST CITY
OF THE COUNTRY, HERE IS KYIV. A
CITY OF ABOUT 1.5 MILLION
PEOPLE. TONIGHT THE MAYOR OF
HEART KEEP TELLING THE
WASHINGTON POST THAT THE CITY IS
SURROUNDED BY RUSSIAN TROOPS BUT
THAT THE UKRAINIANS ARE STILL IN
CONTROL OF THE CITY ITSELF. A
LOT OF THE MOST INTENSE FIGHTING
DURING -- WAS IN THE SOUTHERN
PART OF THE COUNTRY. CRIMEA IS
HERE, WHICH RUSSIA ANNEXED IN
2014. MARIO PAUL WHICH IS A
MAJOR CITY IN THE COUNTRY, STILL
CONTROLLED BY THE UKRAINIAN
MILITARY. BUT, WE ARE EXPECTING
THE RUSSIANS TO MOVE IN FROM
BOTH THE WEST AND THE EAST IN
THE COMING DAYS. THERE WAS SOME
VERY, VERY INTENSE FIGHTING IN
THIS AREA. THE RUSSIANS TOOK A
CITY OF ABOUT 150,000 PEOPLE AND
THEY CONTINUE TO MOVE EASTWARD
TOWARD MARY APPALL. THIS IS A
PRETTY INTENSE CLASH RIGHT NOW.
AN, AS AS THAT FIGHTING
CONTINUES, THIS IS INCREASING
BECOMING A HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
THIS AFTERNOON.
680,000 UKRAINIANS HAVE NOW FLED
THE COUNTRY IN THE 6 DAYS SINCE
RUSSIA OFFICIALLY LAUNCHED ITS
INVASION. MORE
THAN HALF OF THOSE PEOPLE HAVE
EXITED IN THE POLAND. ALL OF
THEM GOING TO THE WEST.
OBVIOUSLY, THEY CANNOT GO EAST.
RUSSIA IS HERE. BELARUS IS
OBVIOUSLY CLOSELY ALLIED TO
RUSSIA UP HERE. SO, THEY ALL
MOVING TO THE WEST. THIS IS
BECOMING THE BIGGEST
DISPLACEMENT OF PEOPLE IN EUROPE
SINCE THE BALKAN WARS AND THE
'90S. IS LOOKING TO BE BIGGER
AND THE SYRIAN REFUGEE CRISIS IN
2014 AND 2015. AND THESE BORDER
CHECKPOINTS, THESE BORDER
CROSSINGS, ARE QUITE HAIRY,
FOLLOWING POLAND, THE SECOND
BIGGEST INFLUXES GOING INTO
HUNGARY. MULLED OVER AND
MOLDAVIA HUNGARY ARE ALSO
GETTING REFUGEES. THERE'S A LOT
OF PRESSURE ON PRESIDENT BIDEN
TO GRANT TEMPORARY PROTECTED
STATUS TO UKRAINIANS, SO THAT
ANY UKRAINIAN IN THE UNITED
STATES DOES NOT HAVE TO GO BACK
TO UKRAINE. THE WHITE HOUSE
EXPECTED TO MAKE AN ANNOUNCEMENT
ON THAT VERY SOON.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, TAKE US TO THE LATEST
INTERNATIONAL AND AMERICAN
RESPONSES, AS NOT JUST PRESIDENT
BIDEN, AS CONGRESS AND AS OTHER
COUNTRIES GRAPPLE WITH JUST WHAT
TO DO.
&gt;&gt; SO, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IS UP
OUT TO BAN RUSSIAN FLIGHTS FROM
ENTERING DOMESTIC AIRSPACE
FOLLOWING THE LEAD OF CANADA AND
THE EUROPEANS. THE BIG NEWS ON
THE RESPONSE FOR TODAY WAS A
MULTILATERAL COALITION ANNOUNCED
THAT THEY ARE GOING TO RELEASE
60 MILLION BARRELS OF OIL FROM
STRATEGIC PER PETROLEUM
RESERVES. -- WILL COME FROM THE
UNITED STATES IN ORDER TO BLUNT
THE SURGING PRICE OF GASOLINE.
THE COMPANY THAT CONTROLS STREAM
TWO, THE PIPELINE CONNECTING
GERMANY
AND RUSSIA TODAY DECLARED
BANKRUPTCY AND IS GOING
INSOLVENT BECAUSE OF SANCTIONS.
YOU ARE SEEING MORE COMPANIES
LIKE APPLE ANNOUNCE THAT THEY
WON'T SELL PRODUCTS IN RUSSIA.
ANY MORE. AND, THIS AFTERNOON,
SECRETARY OF STATE ANTONY
BLINKEN SAID THAT RUSSIA IS
COMMITTING MORE WAR CRIMES BY
THE HOUR, AND SUGGESTED THAT
RUSSIA BE KICKED OUT OF THE
UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS
COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, JAMES.
RHONDA, LET'S GO BACK TO YOU FOR
SOME OF THE SYMBOLISM OF
TONIGHT'S SPEECH. YOU KNOW,
UKRAINE'S AMBASSADOR TO THE
UNITED STATES,  OKSANA
MARKAROVA, IS GOING TO BE ONE OF
THE FIRST  LADIES GUESTS
TONIGHT. WHAT IS THE SYMBOLISM
AND THE MEANING OF THIS?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: SHE WILL BE 1 OF 9
GUESTS IN THE FIRST LADIES
SECTION. AND THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT IS INCREDIBLY SYMBOLIC,
THAT SHOWS YOU THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S ADMINISTRATION WANTS
TO SHOW WHAT THEY HAVE BEEN
SAYING ALL ALONG, IS THAT THEY
ARE STANDING WITH UKRAINE. SO,
HAVING HER HERE, IN THE CHAMBER
AND YOU CAN EXPECT LIKELY THAT
THERE WILL BE A POSITIVE SHE IS
ASKED TO STAND. THAT IS GOING TO
BE VISUALLY VERY SIGNIFICANT
MOMENT. A VERY POIGNANT MOMENT.
AND WILL SHOW SORT OF THE
DIRECTION AND THE MIND-SET RIGHT
NOW OF THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION
AS THEY TAKE ON THIS CRISIS. AND
AS I SAID EARLIER, UKRAINE IS
CERTAINLY A CENTERPIECE RIGHT
NOW IN THE DISCUSSION ON THE
HILL. THERE IS DISCUSSION RIGHT
NOW ABOUT A POTENTIAL AID
PACKAGE, A $10 BILLION AID
PACKAGE THAT THE SENATE MAY BE
CONSIDERING SOON THAT WOULD HELP
WITH EFFORTS IN THE UKRAINE.
THEY ARE ALSO DIRECTING THEIR
ATTENTION TO THE HUMANITARIAN
ISSUES RIGHT NOW JAMES JUST
MENTIONED TO THE TEMPORARY
PROTECTED STATUS. THAT IS
SOMETHING I DON'T MEMBERS OF THE
UKRAINIAN CONGRESSIONAL CONGRESS
ARE PUSHING FOR RIGHT NOW TO
MAKE SURE ANYONE LEAVING UKRAINE
IS PROTECTED. AGAIN, BY HAVING
THAT AMBASSADOR HERE, DURING
THIS SPEECH THAT IS USUALLY
RESERVED FOR A PRESIDENT TO
DISCUSS HIS DOMESTIC AGENDA,
THAT IS GOING TO BE A REALLY
IMPORTANT MOMENT TO WATCH FOR.
&gt;&gt;&gt; POLITICS REPORTER, JOYCE KOH
OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE. TRUST,
TELL US MORE ABOUT HOW PRESIDENT
BIDEN IS APPROACHING TONIGHT'S
HIGH-PROFILE SPEECH.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: LIBBY, EARLIER
DRAFTS OF THE STATE OF THE UNION
SPEECH LOOKED MUCH DIFFERENT
JUST WEEKS AGO. THEN IT WILL
TONIGHT WHEN PRESIDENT BIDEN
DELIVERS HIS FIRST STATE OF THE
UNION
WILL BE TALKING ABOUT, NOT JUST
DOMESTIC ISSUES, BUT OF COURSE,
WHAT IS HAPPENING ABROAD IN
UKRAINE. YOU KNOW, USUALLY, THIS
IS A SPEECH THAT IS GIVEN TO A
DOMESTIC AUDIENCE. JUST, THE
PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY. BUT
TONIGHT, IT WILL REALLY HAVE
EYES GLOBALLY, AS WORLD LEADERS
AND PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD ARE
LOOKING TO PRESIDENT BIDEN TO
SEE HOW HE LEADS IN THIS MOMENT.
WE DID RECEIVE SOME EXCERPTS
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE OF WHAT HE
WILL BE STAYING TONIGHT AND
PART. AND I WANTED TO READ SOME
OF THESE TO YOU. HE IS GOING TO
BE TONIGHT URGING CONGRESS TO
FIGHT INFLATION. REALLY, TRY TO
TIE IN THE MESSAGING ON UKRAINE
TO UNDERSCORE AMERICAN
PRIORITIES. SO, ON THE ECONOMY,
HE IS GOING TO URGE CONGRESS TO
"LOWER YOUR COST COMMON LAW NOT
YOUR WAGES. REALLY TOUCHING ON
THIS $15 AN HOUR FEDERAL MINIMUM
WAGE THAT HE WANTS CONGRESS TO
PASS. HE IS ALSO GOING TO
"MAKE MORE CARS IN
SEMICONDUCTORS IN AMERICA. MORE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND INNOVATION
IN AMERICA AS HE TOUTS HIS
INFRASTRUCTURE BILL, THAT
BIPARTISAN BILL THAT HE SIGNED
INTO LAW BACK IN NOVEMBER. AND
HE ALSO, THERE IS A PART OF THIS
EXCERPT THAT SAYS "MORE JOBS
WHERE YOU CAN EARN A GOOD LIVING
IN AMERICA. INSTEAD OF RELYING
ON FOREIGN SUPPLY CHAINS, LET'S
MAKE IT IN AMERICA. SO, THIS IS
REALLY PRESIDENT BIDEN, TALKING
ABOUT AND ADDRESSING WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN UKRAINE, BOTH IN
TERMS OF ESTABLISHING A
DEMOCRACY THERE, AND SUPPORTING
THE DEMOCRACY, I SHOULD
ALSO REALLY TALKING ABOUT THE
ECONOMY AND HOW THIS COULD
POTENTIALLY INFLUENCE AMERICANS
HERE AT HOME, AND REALLY URGING
CONGRESS TO ACT ON THESE ISSUES,
TO BOLSTER THE U.S. ECONOMY AND
MAKE THINGS HERE IN AMERICA.
THIS IS A SENTIMENT THAT WE HAVE
HEARD HIM TALK ABOUT OVER THE
COURSE OF HIS PRESIDENCY IN THIS
FIRST YEAR. SO, THAT IS A BIT OF
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT TO HEAR FROM
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S SPEECH
TONIGHT. LIBBY?
&gt;&gt;&gt; YOU SO MUCH. LET'S GO TO
REPORTER HANNAH JEWELL TO TALK
ABOUT HOW REPUBLICANS ARE
APPROACHING THE STATE OF THE
UNION. HANNAH, TONIGHT IS THE
PRESIDENTS, BUT IT IS ALSO ONE
TO WATCH THE REACTIONS IN THE
HOUSE CHAMBER TO GET A SENSE OF
NATIONAL UNITY AND IN MANY
CASES, DIVISION. WHAT WILL YOU
BE WATCHING FOR?
&gt;&gt; IS RHONDA JUST MENTIONED,
LIBBY, THE MASKS ARE GOING TO
SEE BE A REALLY INTERESTING
VISUAL SYMBOL OF THE DIVISION IN
THIS COUNTRY. AS YOU MENTIONED
EARLIER, YOU KNOW, IT IS NO
LONGER REQUIRED TO WEAR MASKS IN
THE HOUSE. I IMAGINE THAT WE ARE
GOING TO SEE PERHAPS THEY START
A FIGHT BETWEEN REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS IN THE HOUSE CHAMBER
TOOK A SHOWING THAT
POLITICIZATION AND THE DIVISION
AROUND PUBLIC HEALTH THAT WE
HAVE WITNESSED OVER THE LAST 2
YEARS. BUT BEYOND THAT, LIBBY,
THE STATE OF THE UNION PROVIDES
SUCH A FASCINATING TIME TO SEE
WHERE EVERYONE STANDS ON CERTAIN
ISSUES BY WHAT THEY DO WITH
THEIR BODIES. DO THEY STAND, TO
THE CLOCK, TO THE RESOLUTELY SIT
DOWN WITH HER ARMS FOLDED YOU
SORT OF YOU KNOW, SCOWLING. THIS
IS A MOMENT FOR EVERY MEMBER OF
CONGRESS TO REALLY SHOW AND
EXPRESS THEIR PLEASURE OR
DISPLEASURE. I AM PARTICULARLY
INTERESTED IN SEEING HOW
REPUBLICANS REACT TO BIDEN'S
EXPECTED COMMENTS OF UKRAINE. WE
HAVE SEEN A LOT OF DIVISION, AND
INDEED, SOME PIVOTS AND PUP
REPUBLICAN TALKING POINTS ABOUT
UKRAINE AND ABOUT PUTIN'S
INVASION OF THIS COUNTRY. OVER
THE LAST WEEK, EVEN, AS THE
INVASION HAS GOTTEN WORSE. WILL
BE INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT THEY
ARE WILLING TO SET IT UP FOR AND
WHAT THEY ARE. EVEN IF WE DO SEE
MOMENTS OF UNITY WHICH EVERYBODY
IN THE CHAMBER IS STANDING UP TO
APPLAUD BIDEN'S EXPECTED PRAISE
FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY OF
UKRAINE, THERE UKRAINIAN
RESISTANCE FIGHTERS, THERE
CERTAINLY WILL NOT BE THAT KIND
OF UNITY AROUND REPUBLICAN
REACTIONS TO HOW THEY THINK, YOU
KNOW, BIDEN IS HANDLING THIS
CRISIS.
&gt;&gt; THE PAST WEEK I CERTAINLY
SHIFTED WITH THE PRESIDENT PLANS
TO SAY. TELL US MORE ABOUT HOW
IT IS SHIFTING THE REPUBLICANS
APPROACH AS WELL, HANNAH.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: AS I SAID, THERE
HAS BEEN THIS KIND OF
FASCINATING THING TO WATCH IN
REAL TIME OVER THE LAST WEEK WE
HAD FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP LAST
WEEK CALLING PUTIN A GENIUS,
SAYING HE WAS REALLY SMART FOR
GETTING AWAY WITH THIS AT THIS
TIME. WITH ONLY WHAT TRUMP
CHARACTERIZED AS SOME MINOR
SANCTIONS. THAT IS NOT HOW, OF
COURSE, THE PRESIDENT WOULD
CHARACTERIZE IT. SO, YOU REALLY
SAW THAT STARTING POINT. YOU
HAD, YOU KNOW, FOX NEWS HOST
TUCKER CARLSON, LAURA INGRAM,
TALKING, EVEN SORT OF MAKING FUN
OF PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY. INGRAM
BASICALLY CALLED IT A PATHETIC
DISPLAY, HIS SPEECH WHERE HE WAS
BEGGING PUTIN NOT TO INVADE. YOU
HAD THAT LINE. YOU HAD TRUMP
SAYING THIS. AND THEN AS THE
INVASION WAS, YOU SAW SORT OF
THE PIVOT. YOU SAW A REPUBLICAN
SORT OF CONGRESS PEOPLE LEADERS,
INDEED TUCKER CARLSON HIMSELF,
TRUMP HIMSELF, BEGIN TO MORE
RESOLUTELY, MORE CLEARLY,
CONDEMN PUTIN. THE OTHER THE
PUBLIC AND MEMBERS OF CONGRESS,
NOT WILLING TO ALSO CRITICIZE
TRUMP'S PRIOR COMMENTS ON THIS.
BUT, YOU SAW THE SHIFT HAPPENING
AS YOU KNOW, THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY IS SORT OF TRYING TO FIND
ITS LINE ON THIS. YOU HAD SEE
PACK LAST WEEKEND WHERE YOU HAD
APPLAUSE FOR, YOU KNOW, SUPPORT
FOR UKRAINE AND WHAT YOU HAVE
SEEN START TO EMERGE IS THE WAY
THAT REPUBLICANS ARE TRYING TO
SORT OF SHAPE THEIR CRITIQUES
ABIDED FOREIGN-POLICY. YOU KNOW,
THEY CAME INTO THIS NIGHT, READY
TO CRITIQUE BIDEN'S DOMESTIC
AGENDA, BUT EVEN AS BIDEN IS
BEGINNING TO PIVOT, SO TOO, THE
REPUBLICANS AND THE CRITICISM
ARE GOING TO TRY AND BLAME THIS
CRISIS ON HIM.
&gt;&gt; WAS ON MOMENT AGO, HANNAH,
THAT FENCING THAT IS UP AROUND
THE CAPITAL AND IT WAS PUT UP,
AND THE WORDS OF THE U.S.
CAPITOL POLICE CHIEF, TO PREVENT
ANY DISRUPTION TO THE WORK OF
CONGRESS. CONSERVATIVE ACTIVISTS
THAT PLAN PROTESTS AROUND
WASHINGTON AGAINST COVERED
RESTRICTIONS THIS WEEK. TELL US
MORE ABOUT HOW REPUBLICANS ARE
RESPONDING TO THIS.
&gt;&gt; YOU SEE THAT FENCING THAT WAS
PUT UP WITH DC NOT WANTING TO
SEE ANOTHER JANUARY 6th. AND YOU
SEE THIS PERCUSSIONS OVER WHAT
HAD PLANTED TO BE A RALLY ON THE
MALL TODAY, WHICH ACTUALLY
TURNED OUT TO BE KIND OF A BUST.
THERE WAS A STAGE SET UP FOR A
SORT OF FREEDOM RALLY THAT
DIDN'T HAPPEN. YOU HAVE SEEN
ALSO, THERE IS MEANT TO BE A
TRUCKER CONVOY THAT IS STILL ON
HIS WAY, INSPIRED BY THOSE IN
CANADA. RIGHT NOW, THEY ARE
AROUND INDIANA. THEY ARE MEANT
TO GET HERE FRIDAY OR SATURDAY.
IT IS VERY UNCLEAR WHAT THEY
PLAN TO DO ONCE THEY GET HERE.
AND, THEY HAVE ALSO ACTUALLY THE
PLANNERS OF THAT CONVOY, HAVE
KIND OF BEEN COMPLAINING IN
THEIR CHAT ROOMS AS OUR
REPORTING HAS TALKED ABOUT, THAT
UKRAINE IS DISTRACTING FROM THE
CAUSE AND THEIR CAUSES COVERED
RESTRICTIONS, AND A COVERED
RESTRICTIONS, ANTI-VACCINE
MANDATES, MASKS AND SO ON. YOU
CAN SEE THEM TRYING TO PUSH BACK
AGAINST THAT, BUT ALSO HAVING
THE WINDS SORT OF TAKEN OUT OF
THEIR SALES BY THE WAR IN
EUROPE.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. HAD A
JEWEL, WE WILL BE CHECKING IN
LATER ON ABOUT THE REPUBLICAN
RESPONSE, WHICH WILL BE
DELIVERED RESPONSE, THAT WILL BE
DELIVERED BY THE GOVERNOR OF
IOWA.
&gt;&gt;&gt; LET'S GO THAT WHITE HOUSE
REPORTER LEAVE WOODSON. CLEVE,
YOU HAVE BEEN TRACKING HOW
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S SUPPORTERS ARE
FEELING ABOUT HIS JOB
PERFORMANCE, FEELING ABOUT THE
STATE OF THE NATION. WHAT DOES
HE NEED TO DO TONIGHT TO EXCITE
AND SATISFY THOSE SUPPORTERS?
&gt;&gt; AT. GOOD TO SEE YOU, LIBBY.
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I
THINK IS WHAT CAN BIDEN DO? YOU
KNOW, I TALKED TO A LOT OF
SUPPORTERS WHO SAID, YOU KNOW,
THEY SEE WHAT BIDEN IS DOING ON
PANDEMIC, EVEN VACCINES, EVEN
HIS RECENT ACTIONS ON UKRAINE.
BUT, WHEN THEY TALK TO THE
REPUBLICAN FRIENDS, OR EVEN
THEIR MODERATE FRIENDS, THAT IS
NOT SORT OF BREAKING THROUGH.
RIGHT? YOU HAVE SEEN BIDEN TALK
ABOUT THIS SOMETIMES, TOO. HOW
HE SAYS, YOU KNOW, THESE ARE THE
ACTIONS THAT WE ARE DOING. BUT
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE AREN'T HEARING
IT OR UNDERSTANDING IT AND IT
NEEDS TO MAKE THAT CASE BETTER.
SO, WHAT I THINK WE WILL SEE AS
BIDEN SORT OF MAKING THE CASE
THAT, DIRECTLY TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. THIS IS WHAT I AM DOING.
THIS IS WHAT I HAVE DONE. THIS
IS WHAT I WANTED TO. IN THE
FUTURE. YOU KNOW, THE QUESTION
IS, THE PRESIDENT WITH AN
APPROVAL RATING OF 37%, WITH
PEOPLE HAVING DOUBTS ABOUT
DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS, WILL THAT
EVEN PERMEATE THROUGH, YOU KNOW,
TO ALL OF THESE PEOPLE WHO HAVE,
YOU KNOW, EITHER NEGATIVE OR
LUKEWARM OPINIONS ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; LET'S IGNORE SOME OTHER
APPROVAL RATINGS WITH JAMES
HOMAN. HE IS LOOKING OUT THE
LATEST POLL NUMBERS FROM A
WASHINGTON POST ABC WOULD NEWS.
JAMES, TELL US MORE.
&gt;&gt; AS CLEVE MENTIONED, THE
PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL RATING,
37%. 55% OF THE COUNTRY
DISAPPROVES OF BIDEN. THESE
NUMBERS ARE REMARKABLY SIMILAR
TO WHERE DONALD TRUMP WAS ONE
YEAR INTO HIS PRESIDENCY. AND,
IT IS NOT A GOOD TRENDLINE FOR
PRESIDENT BIDEN. YOU CAN SEE HE
CAME INTO THE OFFICE IN THE
MID-FIFTH THESE. AND HE HAS
FALLEN IN EVERY SINGLE
WASHINGTON POST ABC POLL. HE IS
NOW DOWN AT HIS ALL-TIME LOW.
THAT'S WHY THE SPEECH IS SO
IMPORTANT. THIS IS THE BIGGEST
AUDIENCE RIDE AND WILL GET OF
THE YEAR. AND, WHEN YOU TALK TO
FOLKS AT THE WHITE HOUSE, YOU
WILL NOTICE GOING BACK TO THE
TRENDLINE, ONE OF THE REASONS IT
REALLY FELL LAST SUMMER WAS
BECAUSE OF WHAT HAPPENED IN
AFGHANISTAN. AND THAT WE CAN
LOOK AT WHAT IMPACT IT HAD,
WHICH IS, PERCEPTIONS OF BIDEN
AS A STRONG LEADER. THIS TOOK A
HUGE HIT. THEY HAVE NOT
RECOVERED. YOU WOULD EXPECT
DURING AN INTERNATIONAL CRISIS,
THERE WOULD BE SOME KIND OF
RALLY AROUND THE FLAG EFFECT,
THAT PEOPLE WOULD, KIND OF
SUPPORT THE PRESIDENT. THE
PROBLEM FOR THE WHITE HOUSE IS
THAT ONLY 36%, ABOUT THE SAME AS
THINK THAT HE IS DOING A GOOD
JOB, THINK THAT HE IS STRONG AS
A LEADER. MUCH WORSE, TWO THIRDS
OF INDEPENDENCE DON'T THINK THAT
THE PRESIDENT IS A STRONG
LEADER. BUT, THE NEXT RESULT
FROM OUR POLL WHICH WE RELEASED
OVER THE WEEKEND, IS MORE
TROUBLING FOR THE BIDEN
ADMINISTRATION. THOSE JOE BIDEN
HAVE THE MENTAL SHARPNESS TO BE
PRESIDENT? 54% OF AMERICANS SAY
NO. 59% OF INDEPENDENTS SAY NO.
WE ASKED THIS QUESTION IN A POLL
IN MAY 2020 AND THE NUMBERS WERE
REVERSED. MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
THOUGHT BIDEN DID HAVE THE
MENTAL SHARPNESS. ONE OF THE
TESTS FOR THE PRESIDENT TONIGHT.
HE IS TALKING FOR AN HOUR. WILL
HE CONVEY THAT HE IS A MAN IN
CHARGE WITH HIS HANDS ON THE
STEERING WHEEL? THE WHITE HOUSE
EASES AS ONE OF THE NUMBERS THEY
REALLY WANT TO MOVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, JAMES.
CLEVE, LET'S GO BACK TO YOU FOR
THAT THINKING APPROVAL NUMBER
THAT WE SAW FROM JAMES, THAT
ARC. WHEN YOU TALKED TO VOTERS,
HOW MUCH WERE THEY THINKING
ABOUT FOREIGN POLICY, VERSUS
THEIR OWN PERSONAL EXPERIENCES
OF THE PANDEMIC? AND THE LAST
YEAR PLUS OF THE LIVES?
&gt;&gt; EPIC IT IS ACTUALLY A MIX OF
BOTH. RIGHT? BECAUSE WE TALKED
TO THESE VOTERS OVER THE PAST
WEEK, AS THE BIGGEST HEADLINE
WAS WHAT WAS HAPPENING IN
UKRAINE. AND WHETHER BIDEN WAS A
COMPETENT LEADER, WHETHER HIS
FOREIGN-POLICY BONA FIDES WERE
GOOD ENOUGH TO GET US THROUGH.
ONE IMPORTANT THING TO REALIZE,
THE THING AT THE TOP OF THE
WASHINGTON POST OR ON CNN OR
WHATEVER, YOU KNOW, DON'T
NECESSARILY ALWAYS REFLECT WHAT
AN INDIVIDUAL VOTER IS THINKING
ABOUT HIS OR HER INDIVIDUAL
LIVES. PEOPLE WILL STILL IN
DURING THE AFTER EFFECTS OR THE
EFFECTS OF THE PANDEMIC. THEY
ARE STILL DEALING WITH
INFLATION. WE ARE HYPER ATTUNED
TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. MANY
OF US HAD MADE POPCORN AND WE
ARE PREPARED TO WATCH THE SPEECH
END-TO-END. MOST PEOPLE ARE KIND
OF LIVING AND ENDURING THEIR OWN
LIVES. WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT,
YOU KNOW, WHAT PRESIDENT BIDEN
DOES OR SAYS TONIGHT MAY NOT
HAVE AN IMMEDIATE EFFECT, AS
MUCH AS IT GOES INTO PEOPLE'S
GENERAL PERCEPTION OF HOW
PRESIDENT IS, HOW HE IS
BEHAVING, WHAT HE IS GOOD AT,
WHAT HE IS NOT GOOD AT. IT IS
JUST A MIX. PEOPLE, YOU KNOW,
WHAT IS HAPPENING AT UKRAINE AT
THE FOREFRONT OF A LOT OF
PEOPLE'S MINDS. BUT SO IS HOW
MUCH GAS COSTS. SO WAS
, YOU KNOW, HOW MUCH STUFF COST
AT THE GROCERIES. WHETHER THE
CHILDREN HAVE TO WEAR MASKS TO
SCHOOL. ALL OF THE FACTORS IN.
&gt;&gt;&gt; CLEVE, ONE OF THE CHALLENGES
OF THE SPEECH HAS TO BE
DELIVERED, ANY BIG SPEECH LIKE
THIS, HAS TO BE DELIVERED WITH A
LOT OF CONFIDENCE. YOU KNOW,
HITTING THE RIGHT LINES AT THE
RIGHT MOMENT. KNOWING WHEN
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO APPLY. THIS
HAS BEEN A SPEECH IN MOTION. HOW
CHALLENGING IS IT THAT IT'S BEEN
GOING TO REWRITES AND REVAMPS?
IT HASN'T HAD THAT TIME TO
REALLY SORT OF GET CRAFT GOOD
AND AGE IN THE PRESIDENTS MIND
AND MOUTH OVER THIS PAST WEEK OR
SO.
&gt;&gt; AT. I MEAN I THINK YOU HIT IT
EXACTLY. ON THE HEAD. THE
SPEECH, AS IN -- ENVISIONED BY
THE EARLIEST SPEECHWRITERS TWO
WEEKS AGO MIGHT BE VASTLY
DIFFERENT. IN FACT, SOME OF MY
COLLEAGUES IN THE WHITE HOUSE
HAVE SOME REPORTING THAT IT WAS
BEING CRAFTED OVER AND OVER AND
OVER AGAIN. NOW, I THINK THE
WHITE HOUSE HOPES THAT, YOU
KNOW, THOSE REWRITES WILL APPEAL
TO MORE TO BIDEN'S STRENGTHS,
RIGHT? IMPROVEMENT ON THE
PANDEMIC FRONT. YOU KNOW,
AMERICANS BEHIND THE SANCTIONS,
OR PUNISHING PUTIN OVER ITS
INVASION OF UKRAINE. BUT, YOU
KNOW, FOR A SPEECH THAT HAS TO
DO A LOT, AND, YOU ALSO HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT THIS SPEECH AS
SETTING THE TONE FOR THE NEXT
EIGHT MONTHS. YOU KNOW. MOST
MODERATES OR INDEPENDENTS,
ACCORDING TO OUR POLL, DON'T
REALLY APPROVE OF THE JOB THE
DEMOCRATS ARE DOING. SO, WHAT
BIDEN IS TRYING TO SAY TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, AND TO HIS
PARTY, IS, WE ARE DOING A GOOD
JOB. AND, THIS IS WHY YOU
SHOULD, YOU KNOW, NOT ONLY
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT US, BUT
ALSO, YOU KNOW, THINK ABOUT
KEEPING US IN POWER IN NOVEMBER,
EIGHT MONTHS FROM NOW.
&gt;&gt; THANKS, CLEVE. LET'S BRING
JOYCE KOH BACK IN. SHE IS
OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE. TRUST,
TALK ABOUT BIDEN'S FIRST YEAR IN
OFFICE AND SOME OF THE KEY
MOMENTS THAT HIS ADMINISTRATION
HAVE HAD TO DEAL WITH, SOME OF
THE HIGHLIGHTS THAT HAVE LED TO
TONIGHT'S ADDRESS.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, LIBBY, PRESIDENT
BIDEN HAS, YOU KNOW, RAN ON THIS
MESSAGE OF UNITY. HE HAS INFUSED
UNITY INTO A NUMBER OF HIS KEY
SPEECHES OVER THE COURSE OF THIS
LAST YEAR. BUT TONIGHT, HE WILL
BE SPEAKING TO, BY MANY
INDICATIONS, A DIVIDED NATION.
NATION THAT IS DIVIDED ON THINGS
LIKE THE PANDEMIC, THE POLITICS
SURROUNDING THE PANDEMIC ON
SOCIAL ISSUES LIKE RACE
RELATIONS. AND HIS IMMEDIATE
AUDIENCE, CONGAS, IS REFLECTIVE
OF THIS. REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS, AND EVEN MEMBERS OF
HIS OWN PARTY, AND THE
INFIGHTING THERE THAT HAS
DIVIDED, REALLY, THE SPLIT IN
CONGRESS, WHERE THEY WERE WERE
ABLE TO GET KEY AGENDA ITEMS OF
BIDEN'S ADMINISTRATION PASSED
JUST A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO. SO,
LOOKING BACK AT THE BIDEN
ADMINISTRATION EVERYTHING
STARTED, BIDEN'S INAUGURATION
BACK IN JANUARY OF 2021 WAS
REALLY JUST TRIUMPHANT FEET FOR
DEMOCRACY. IT HAPPENED JUST TWO
WEEKS AFTER THE JANUARY 6th
INSURRECTION AT THE CAPITAL. AND
THEN, HE HAD A PRETTY HUGE
LEGISLATIVE ACCOMPLISHMENT
SHORTLY AFTER THAT, WITH THE
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN, WHICH WAS
AT $1.9 TRILLION CORONAVIRUS
RELIEF PACKAGE. THAT HE SIGNED
INTO LAW TO REALLY BOOST THE
ECONOMY AND HELP FAMILIES THAT
WERE STRUGGLING FOLLOWING THE
CORONAVIRUS. AND THEN, HE SAW
POLL NUMBERS AND HIS APPROVAL
RATINGS SLIP DURING THE SUMMER
WHEN
HE RESPONDED TO THE TROOP
WITHDRAWAL IN AFGHANISTAN AS
SORT OF THE WAY THAT HE WENT
ABOUT THAT. HIS ADMINISTRATION
HAD STOOD BY THE WAY THAT HE
PULLED TROOPS OUT OF
AFGHANISTAN,
AND THE AIRLIFT OF MORE THAN
100,000 PEOPLE. BUT ULTIMATELY,
13 U.S. SERVICE MEMBERS ENDED UP
GETTING KILLED IN THAT
OPERATION. SO, HE HAS REALLY
STRUGGLED TO COME BACK FROM
THOSE APPROVAL NUMBERS SINCE THE
SUMMER. WE SAW HE HAD SOME MORE
LEGISLATIVE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS WITH THE
BIPARTISAN INFRASTRUCTURE BILL
THAT HE SIGNED INTO LAW BACK IN
NOVEMBER. BUT, AFTER THAT, HE
AND DEMOCRATS REALLY FAILED TO
PASS TO OTHER AGENDA ITEMS. THE
BUILD BACK BETTER PLAN AND
ANYTHING ON A FEDERAL VOTING
RIGHTS ACT. SO, BIDEN IS REALLY
COMING INTO THIS STATE OF THE
UNION SPEECH WITH A LONG LIST OF
AGENDA ITEMS. WE GOT SOME
EXCERPTS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
EARLIER TODAY AS WELL AS
FACT SHEETS WHERE THEY LAID OUT
A NUMBER OF THINGS THAT BIDEN
WILL BE TALKING ABOUT. FIRST AND
FOREMOST, ON ECONOMIC POLICY. HE
WILL BE URGING CONGRESS TO DO
THINGS LIKE, TO HEIGHTEN THE,
RACE, I SHOULD SAY, THE FEDERAL
MINIMUM WAGE TO $15 PER HOUR. HE
WANTS TO LOWER THE COST OF A
NUMBER OF THINGS FOR WORKING
FAMILIES LIKE PRESCRIPTION DRUG
VICES, AND HOUSING COSTS. SO, HE
WILL BE URGING CONGRESS, AND WE
WILL HEAR HIM TALK A LOT ABOUT
THE ECONOMY. AND OF COURSE,
PRESIDENT BIDEN JUST WITHIN THE
LAST WEEK, NOMINATED A SUPREME
COURT NOMINEE TO SUCCEED JUSTICE
STEPHEN BREYER. KETANJI BROWN
JACKSON. WE WILL BE HEARING HIM
MAKE THAT PUSH TO CONGRESS TO
CONFIRM HER
AS THE JUSTICE TO THE SUPREME
COURT. SHE WOULD BE THE FIRST
BLACK WOMAN TO EVER BE CONFIRMED
TO THE SUPREME COURT. IF THAT
HAPPENS.
&gt;&gt; -- IMPORTANT TO SEE BECAUSE
WE WILL SEE SOME OF THE SUPREME
COURT JUSTICES TONIGHT IN THE
CHAMBER AND THE PRESIDENT
CERTAINLY HOPES THAT A YEAR FROM
NOW AT HIS NEXT STATE OF THE
UNION, HE SEES A JUSTICE JACKSON
THERE AS WELL. THANK YOU SO
MUCH, JOYCE. I WANTED PIVOTED
JAMES HOME AND TO PICK UP HER
JOYCE LEFT OFF ON THE ECONOMY A
FEW MOMENTS AGO. JAMES, BECAUSE,
THERE'S A REAL QUESTION OF JUST
WHAT PRESIDENT BIDEN CAN DO FOR
THE ECONOMY, FRIENDLY. BUT,
MAYBE THE BIGGER QUESTION IS
EVEN, HOW CAN HE CONVINCE
AMERICANS THAT THE ECONOMY IS
NOT AS BAD AS I THINK IT IS.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS QUITE A NEEDLE TO
THREAD. AND UNDERSTAND IT, LET'S
LOOK AT THE WASHINGTON POST ABC
POLL THAT CAME OUT OVER THE
WEEKEND. WHEN YOU HAD TOGETHER,
YOU KNOW, YOU ASKED PEOPLE, HAD
YOU THINK THE NATION'S ECONOMY
IS DOING. A TOTAL OF 75% SAY
EITHER NOT SO GOOD OR POOR. THAT
WAS 70% JUST NUMB THREE MONTHS
AGO. THAT NUMBER CONTINUES TO
INCREASE. ONLY ABOUT 1 AND 4
AMERICANS THINK THE ECONOMY IS
IN GOOD SHAPE. JUST 3% GETS
EXCELLENT. THE REASON THOSE
NUMBERS ARE SO BAD IS BECAUSE OF
IT COMES TO ECONOMIC, PEOPLE
THINK OF THEMSELVES. MY BEING
AFFECTED? WE ASKED IN OUR POLL,
ARE YOU BETTER OFF FINANCIALLY
THAN WHAT BIDEN BECAME
PRESIDENT. HALF THE PEOPLE SAY
I'M ABOUT THE SAME SHAPE. 35%
SAY NOT AS WELL OFF. 17% SAY
BETTER OFF. THIS IS A BIG RED
FLAG NUMBER FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION. AND, THE REASON
THAT IT IS SO FRUSTRATING FOR
THE BIDEN WHITE HOUSE IS THAT,
WAGES HAVE GONE UP, AND
EMPLOYMENT IS AROUND 4%. BUT
INFLATION IS AT A 40 YEAR HIGH.
IS ONE BIDEN ADVISOR PUT IT TO
BE, WHEN PEOPLE'S PAYCHECKS GO
UP, THEY THINK THEY EARNED IT.
WHEN THE PRICES EARNED AND THEY
THINK IT'S A TAX ON THEM. AND
INFLATION IS A HUGE PROBLEM. SO,
BIDEN NEEDS TO SOUND LIKE HE
GETS IT, LIKE HE FEELS THE PAIN
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE PAYING HIGHER
PRICES. ESPECIALLY POORER
AMERICANS. THE CHALLENGES, RIGHT
NOW, ONLY 37%. THE SAME AS
APPROVE OF HIS OVERALL JOB,
APPROVE OF HOW BIDEN IS DOING ON
THE ECONOMY. THE OTHER QUESTION
WE ASK IS WHICH PARTY DO YOU
THINK IS BETTER? REPUBLICANS
HAVE A 19 POINT EDGE OVER
DEMOCRATS ON THE ECONOMY. THAT
IS THE BIGGEST ADVANTAGE THAT
REPUBLICANS HAVE HAD ON THIS
QUESTION IN A POST-POLL SINCE
1990. SO, WE ARE GOING TO HEAR A
LOT ABOUT UKRAINE. WERE GOING TO
HEAR WHAT IS HAPPENING IN
EUROPE. THAT WILL GET THE MOST
ATTENTION TONIGHT. ULTIMATELY,
THE, THE MIDTERM ELECTIONS ARE
GOING TO COME DOWN A LOT MORE TO
HOW PEOPLE FEEL THE ECONOMY IS
DOING AND WHICH PARTY THE THING
CAN HANDLE IT BETTER. AND, IN
THAT VEIN, LET'S LOOK AT THIS
QUESTION. THE POLL ESSENTIALLY
ASKED, WHO IS TO BLAME FOR
INFLATION. FOR RISING PRICES.
HALF OF PEOPLE SAY BIDEN
DESERVES A GREAT DEAL OF BLAME.
BIDEN, AS HE LEAVES THE WHITE
HOUSE THERE TO HEAD OVER TO
CAPITOL HILL, IS GOING TO TRY TO
BASICALLY SAY THAT IT IS NOT HIS
FAULT. HE HAS 4 DIFFERENT
SECTIONS IN TONIGHT'S SPEECH
THAT ARE FOCUSED ON THE ECONOMY,
AND SPECIFICALLY, TRYING TO TIE
IN SOME OF HIS ECONOMIC
PROPOSALS TO HIS EFFORT TO LOWER
PRICES. AND PEOPLE ARE PRETTY
AMENABLE. TO IT. THREE QUARTERS
OF AMERICANS SAY DISRUPTIONS
FROM COVID DESERVE A LOT OF
BLAME FOR PRICES GOING UP,
SUPPLY-CHAIN PROBLEM. 68% SAY
CORPORATIONS TRY TO INCREASE THE
PROFITS DESERVE BLAME. BIDEN IS
GOING TO HIGHLIGHT, NOT THOSE
NUMBERS, BUT BOTH OF THOSE
DYNAMICS. HE'S GOING TO SAY WE
NEED TO BRING SUPPLY CHAINS TO
THE UNITED STATES. WE NEED TO
MAKE THINGS HERE DOMESTICALLY.
AND HE IS GOING TO CALL OUT MEAT
PROCESSORS, AND MONOPOLIES
GENERALLY, SAY BUSINESSES ARE
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF CONSUMERS.
ALL OF THAT IS PART OF AN
EFFORT, LIBBY, TO SHOW THAT HE
UNDERSTANDS THE PAIN THAT PEOPLE
ARE FEELING IN THE ECONOMY, BUT
THAT IT'S NOT HIS FAULT. THAT IS
A HARD MESSAGE TO DELIVER WHEN
YOU ARE THE PRESIDENT, THOUGH.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, JAMES
HOHMANN. AS WE WATCH THAT
MOTIVATE PROCESS DOWN
PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, YOU CAN
ALSO SEE THE, THE SENATE
CHAMBER,  SENATORS ARE PREPARING
TO GO, THEMSELVES, ACROSS THE
CAPITAL, OVER TO THE HOUSE
CHAMBER TO EXPERIENCE AND
WITNESS TONIGHT STATED THE UNION
ADDRESS. IT IS PRESIDENT BIDEN'S
FIRST OFFICIAL STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS. THE ADDRESS HE
GAVE TO THE JOINT SESSION OF
CONGRESS ABOUT A YEAR AGO, WAS
NOT THIS OFFICIAL STATE OF THE
UNION. AND YOU CAN SEE THERE,
THE MASKS ARE OFF. MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE, AS THEY HEAD OVER,
THE RULES HAVE CHANGED, AND SO,
THEY ARE ALLOWED TO GO MASK WAS
THROUGH THE CHAMBER AND OVER TO
THE HOUSE. THIS EVENING. CLEVE,
I WANT TO BRING YOU IN FOR TWO
THINGS. ONE THING, CLEVE, AS WE
HEAR JAMES REFLECT ON THOSE
NUMBERS, THE WHITE HOUSE HAS TO
COME UP WITH A STRATEGY OF HOW
THEY TALK TO AMERICANS ABOUT THE
RESPONSIBLE PARTIES FOR THE
ECONOMY. AND TRY TO GET FAITH
AND CONFIDENCE THAT PRESIDENT
BIDEN CAN LEAD THE WAY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. 100%. RIGHT? LIKE, IF
BIDEN WERE TO JUST SHIFT THE
BLAME AND SAY, THIS IS, YOU
KNOW, CORPORATIONS FAULT, OR
THIS IS, YOU KNOW, RUSSIA'S
FAULT. THAT IT MAKES IT REALLY,
REALLY DIFFICULT FOR PEOPLE WHO
ARE ASKING, WELL, WHAT ARE YOU
DOING? WELL, WHAT ARE YOU DOING
TO LEE? SO, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE WILL SEE BIDEN TRY TO DO
IS, IN VERY PLAINSPOKEN WAYS,
YOU KNOW, SAY, YOU KNOW, THIS IS
OUR WAY OUT OF THIS. LIKE, THIS
IS HOW WE CHART, WE CHART A PATH
OUT OF THIS. WHILE ALSO SORT OF
NOT TAKING TOO MUCH OF THE
BLAME, SORT OF ONTO HIMSELF. AS
JAMES, YOU KNOW, ELEGANTLY PUT,
THAT IS A REALLY, REALLY TOUGH
NEEDLE TO THREAD.
&gt;&gt; MY FINAL QUESTION FOR YOU,
CLEVE, IS WHAT IS YOU ARE GOING
TO BE LOOKING FOR AND WATCHING
FOR. IT IS ALSO, IT IS ALWAYS
INSIGHTFUL TO HEAR WHAT
REPORTERS BRING TO VIEWING
TONIGHT SPEECH. WHICH WOULD
LISTEN FOR?
&gt;&gt; I WONDER WHAT BIDEN SAYS TO
FOLKS THAT MAYBE WERE NOT THE
HARDEST CORE DEMOCRATS, OR THE
BIGGEST BIDEN SUPPORTERS. FOLKS
WHO, MAYBE THEY VOTED AGAINST
TRUMP, OR MAYBE THEY JUST, YOU
KNOW, THEY BELIEVED IN BIDEN,
BUT NOT, YOU KNOW, 100%. I
WONDER WHAT HIS ARGUMENT IS TO
THOSE. A LOT OF TIMES, WE KNOW
WHAT THE RIGHT BELIEVES AND WHAT
THE LEFT BELIEVES, BUT, YOU
KNOW, IN THE MIDDLE, LIKE IN THE
MARGINS ON THE MIDDLE, LIKE
THOSE FOLKS WHO NEED A
GO TO THE POLLS. WHO NEED A
REASON TO CONTINUE TO TRUST. I
THINK THAT IS WHAT BIDEN IS
GOING TO HIT ON. I ALSO WONDER,
YOU KNOW, WHAT SPECIFICALLY HE
SAYS ABOUT THE MIDDLE CLASS,
ABOUT THE ECONOMY, YOU KNOW, FOR
FOLKS LIKE MY PARENTS, WHO WORRY
ABOUT THE RISING COSTS OF
EVERYTHING. THAT IS A POCKET
WHICH ISSUE THAT AFFECTS EVERY
SINGLE THING THAT AMERICANS DO.
I WONDER WHAT ARGUMENT HE MAKES
FOR THOSE PEOPLE ABOUT WHY THEY
SHOULD KEEP PUTTING TRUST IN
HIM.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, CLEVE
WOOTSON.  RHONDA COLVIN, WE ARE
WATCHING THE SENATORS  GO
THROUGH STATUARY HALL ON THEIR
WAY OVER TO THE HOUSE CHAMBER.
IT IS A PLACE THAT YOU AND I ARE
USUALLY STATIONED, WATCHING. AND
IT IS USUALLY FULL OF PEOPLE,
JUST JAMPACKED, ELBOW TO ELBOW,
WITNESSING THIS MOMENT. TALK TO
US ABOUT WHAT YOU ARE WATCHING
FOR TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS TRUE, YOU KNOW, IN
YEARS BEFORE THE PANDEMIC, WE
WOULD HAVE BEEN CRAMMED IN THAT
ROOM, TRYING TO TALK TO SENATORS
AND LAWMAKERS AS THEY GO BY. AND
THAT HAS NOT BEEN SO NOW FOR THE
SECOND YEAR IN A ROW. I THINK
WHAT I WILL BE WATCHING FOR
TONIGHT IS LISTENING TO HELP THE
PRESIDENT ADDRESSES HIS BACK
BETTER AGENDA. YOU WILL REMEMBER
THAT THAT WAS THE
INFRASTRUCTURE, THE SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE PACKAGE THAT
INVOLVED CLIMATE INITIATIVES. IT
INVOLVE MORE MONEY FOR PROGRAMS
FOR CHILDREN. A LOT OF SOCIAL
SPENDING IN THERE, AND IT WAS AN
AMBITIOUS PLAN. HOWEVER, IT DID
FIZZLE OUT BACK IN DECEMBER WHEN
THE TWO KEY SWING VOTES IN THE
SENATE SAID THEY WERE NOT
SUPPORTED. SO, IT SEEMS LIKE IT
HAS BEEN ON PAUSE A LITTLE BIT
HERE ON CAPITOL HILL. I SUSPECT
HE WILL WANT TO BRING IT UP
SOMEHOW TOOK A SO, HOW DOES HE
RECAST IT? HOW DOES HE DISCUSS
IT? WHAT IS HIS PITCH TO THESE
LAWMAKERS? IN HIS PITCH TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT HE CAN GET
SOMETHING LIKE THAT DONE.
BECAUSE IT DID INVOLVE A LOT OF
THOSE KITCHEN TABLE ISSUES THAT
A LOT OF AMERICANS ARE WONDERING
ABOUT RIGHT NOW. SO I AM
WONDERING HOW HE ADDRESSES THAT.
IF UKRAINE DID NOT HAPPEN, OR IF
SOME OF THESE OTHER THINGS THAT,
OVER THE LAST FEW MONTHS, DIDN'T
HAPPEN. I SUSPECT BIDEN WOULD
HAVE BEEN ON THE ROAD THE LAST
FEW WEEKS DISCUSSING THIS MORE.
AND HE HAS BEEN. HIS WIFE HAS
ALSO BEEN VISITING COMMUNITY
COLLEGE DISCUSSING THAT SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN. BUT, IT HAS
FIZZLED OUT HERE A LITTLE BIT ON
CAPITOL HILL. SO, I WOULD LIKE
TO SEE HOW HE IS GOING TO
ADDRESS THAT AGAIN. WHAT IS HIS
PLAN FORWARD? IS HE GOING TO
BREAK IT UP? THAT IS ONE OF THE
THEORIES HERE ON CAPITOL HILL,
IS THAT THE PLAN IS GOING TO BE
BROKEN UP SO THAT IT CAN BE
VOTED ON, ISSUE BY ISSUE INSTEAD
OF ONE LARGE PLANT. SO, I WILL
BE LISTENING TO SEE HOW HE TALKS
ABOUT GO BACK BETTER.
&gt;&gt;&gt; RHONDA, WE JUST SAW THE VICE
PRESIDENT, KAMALA HARRIS, ENTER
THE HOUSE CHAMBER. THE SENATORS
ARE COMING IN NOW. SO, SPEAKER
PELOSI HAS CALLED THE HOUSE TO
ORDER. RHONDA, I JUST HAVE TO
REMARK, THE STRIKING VISUAL THIS
IS TO SEE THE MASK OFF, TO SEE
THE VICE PRESIDENT WITHOUT A
MASK, AND TO SEE SO MANY PEOPLE
COMING IN HERE, YOU KNOW, IT
WON'T BE AS CROWDED AS IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN THREE OR FOUR YEARS
AGO. BUT IT WILL STILL BE A FULL
CHAMBER, RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT. JUST, YOU KNOW,
LAST YEAR I BELIEVE IT WAS
AROUND 200 PEOPLE WERE ALLOWED
INTO THE CHAMBER. PEOPLE HAD TO
TO BRING VIRTUAL GUESTS. THAT IS
A PRACTICE THEY ARE ACTUALLY
STILL DOING THIS YOU. A NUMBER
OF PEOPLE HAVE VIRTUAL GUESTS.
THAT MIGHT BE AROUND TO STAY FOR
YEARS TO COME. BUT YOU'RE RIGHT,
YOU ARE NOT SEEING MANY MASKS. I
HAVE NOT SEEN JERRY MANDLER
THERE FROM THE HOUSE. HE IS
WEARING A MASK. BUT YOU KNOW,
YOUR -- LAWMAKERS TO DO SO. YOU
ARE ALSO SPEAKING VERY CLOSELY
TO EACH OTHER. IT LOOKS VERY
2019. AND EARLIER. AND, THIS IS
CERTAINLY A SHIFT FOR THE HOUSE.
THE HOUSE, AND NOT THE SENATE,
BUT HOUSE, DID HAVE REGULATIONS
FOR THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS,
THAT MANY MEMBERS HAD TO BE
MASSED. IN FACT, IF YOU WANT
MASS, YOU ARE FINE. FOR THIS TO
BE A CHANGE THAT WE ARE SEEING
ON THIS NIGHT, IT IS REALLY
INTERESTING VISUALLY. AND IT IS
ALSO GOING TO BE INTERESTING
WHEN PRESIDENT BIDEN WALKS
THROUGH, HE KNOWS MANY OF THESE
PEOPLE PERSONALLY, AS HAVING
SERVED IN CONGRESS FOR SUCH A
LONG TIME. HE WILL LIKELY WANT
TO SHAKE HANDS, HUG, YOU KNOW,
SPEAK CLOSELY. SO, IT IS REALLY
GOING TO BE INTERESTING TO SEE
WHAT TYPE OF BALANCE HE STRIKES.
BECAUSE, HE, AGAIN, HIS
ADMINISTRATION WILL WANT TO
CONVEY TO PEOPLE THAT, YES, THIS
PANDEMIC IS STILL HERE WITH US,
BUT WE ARE LEARNING TO DEAL WITH
IT. AND, IT IS REALLY GOING TO
BE TRULY INTERESTING TO SEE HOW
HE COMES IN.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE SEEING THE MEDIA THERE
AS THEY WATCH. AND THAT WOULD
NORMALLY BE PACKED WITH THREE
QUARTERS WATCHING WHAT IS
HAPPENING. SO, THERE ARE STILL
SOME DIFFERENCES. WE ARE STILL
SEEING A MUCH THINNER PRESS
CORPS IN ATTENDANCE TONIGHT. AT
THIS STATE OF THE UNION. JAMES,
SOMETHING ELSE WE ARE SEEING,
AND A LOT OF MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE AND HOUSE WEARING YELLOW
AND BLUE, THE UKRAINIAN COME OF
THE COLORS OF UKRAINE, JAMES.
&gt;&gt; WE ALSO SEEING PEOPLE WITH
UKRAINIAN FLAGS. WE JUST OMIT
ROMNEY AND JOE MANSION COMING IN
TOGETHER. HOLDING A UKRAINIAN
PLACARD AND ROMNEY APPEARED TO
HAVE A LAPEL THAT HAD AN
AMERICAN AND UKRAINIAN FLAG. YOU
SEE SOME, YOU KNOW, POPS OF
YELLOW AND POPS OF BLUE THERE ON
THE FLOOR. AND THAT IS, AND IT
IS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE.
IT IS DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS.
RHONDA SAID IT FEELS LIKE 2019.
IT DOES FEEL SORT OF NORMAL. AND
I WILL TELL YOU THAT THAT IS
PART OF THE STRATEGY FOR THE
SPEECH BY THE WHITE HOUSE. THEY
ORIGINALLY HAD INTENDED THIS TO
BE PART OF THE KIND OF PIVOT,
RETURN TO NORMALCY TO PRE-COVID,
TO KIND OF RECOGNIZING WHERE THE
REST OF THE COUNTRY IS. AND,
WILL BE JUST A LOT LOUDER IN
THERE THAN IT WAS A YEAR AGO
WHEN THE AUDIENCE WAS SO MUCH
SMALLER, AND AT SOME POINT TO
KIND OF SOUNDED LIKE AYDEN WAS
ECHOING IN THAT BIG, CAVERNOUS
CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING IN THE
WASHINGTON POST CHIEF
CORRESPONDENT, DAN BALTZ. DAN,
WELCOME AND THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US. WHERE DOES THIS
SPEECH,, IN TERMS OF JOE BIDEN'S
PRESIDENCY? HOW PIVOTAL IS THIS
MOMENT? WHAT IS THE OPPORTUNITY
THAT HE HAS? AND ALSO, WHAT IS
THE LIFT?
&gt;&gt; THE OPPORTUNITY HE HAS
OBVIOUSLY, IS TO BEGIN SOMETHING
OF A RESET FOR HIS PRESIDENCY,
GIVEN HIS LOW APPROVAL RATINGS
AND THE WARNING SIGNS THE
DEMOCRATS SEE HEADING INTO THE
NOVEMBER ELECTIONS. BUT, THIS IS
A SPEECH THAT IS GOING TO BE
GIVEN IN A MUCH, MUCH DIFFERENT
CONTEXT THAN THEY HAD IMAGINED
WHEN THEY STARTED WRITING THE
SPEECH. WHAT HAS HAPPENED OVER
THE LAST WEEK, AND PRIOR TO THAT
IN THE RUN-UP. BUT IN THE LAST
WEEK, WITH THE RUSSIAN INVASION
OF UKRAINE, HAS COMPLETELY
TRANSFORMED THIS MOMENT. AND HE
NOW HAS 2 IMPORTANT AUDIENCES.
HE HAS AN IMPORTANT AUDIENCE AT
HOME, WHICH RIGHT NOW, DOES NOT
SEE HIM AS A STRONG LEADER. DOES
NOT APPROVE OF MUCH OF WHAT HE
IS DOING AS PRESIDENT TOOK A
BUT, HE ALSO HAS AN
INTERNATIONAL AUDIENCE, AND IT
WILL BE LOOKING AT HIM TO, IN
ESSENCE, DEFINE WHAT IS PROBABLY
THE BEGINNING OF A NEW ERA IN
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY POLICY.
SO, THE QUESTION IS, HOW DOES HE
BALANCE THOSE CHALLENGES? HE HAS
TO DEAL WITH THE DOMESTIC ISSUES
THAT ARE FOREMOST IN THE MINDS
OF THE VOTERS. BUT HE ALSO HAS
TO EXPLAIN TO AMERICANS AND TO
THE REST OF THE WORLD, WHY THIS
MOMENT IS SO IMPORTANT AND WHAT
IT IS GOING TO TAKE IN THE LONG
RUN TO DEAL WITH A, YOU KNOW, OF
VLADIMIR PUTIN WHO IS BENT ON,
IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER, TRYING TO
RE-CREATE A SOVIET, OR A RUSSIAN
EMPIRE.
&gt;&gt; DAN, HOW MUCH OF THE MESSAGES
WEAVING TOGETHER? YOU KNOW, HOW
MUCH DOES PRESIDENT BIDEN TALK
ABOUT THIS, THIS EXISTENTIAL
THREAT THAT RUSSIA POSES, AND IN
TERMS OF THIS TRYING TO SAVE
DEMOCRACY IN EUROPE. AND HOW
MUCH DOES HE TIE INTO HIS GOALS
DOMESTICALLY? IS THERE A DANGER
THERE? IS HE TRYING TO SEPARATE
THOSE TWO THINGS, OR BRING THEM
TOGETHER?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT'S ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES OF THE SPEECH. LIKE
EVERYBODY ELSE, I AM INTERESTED
TO SEE HOW THEY DO THAT. WE KNOW
THAT THE THEME OF DEMOCRACY OF
AND AUTHORITARIANISM HAS BEEN A
LONG-STANDING THEME OF PRESIDENT
BIDEN SINCE CAME INTO OFFICE.
AND IN SOME WAYS, THIS HAS BEEN
MORE OF KIND OF A DOMESTIC
DISCUSSION, IN PART BECAUSE OF
THE CHALLENGES OUR OWN DEMOCRACY
HERE AT HOME. WE ARE NOW SEEING
THE INTERNATIONAL IMPLICATIONS
IN A MUCH MORE EXISTENTIAL WAY.
SOAP I THINK THAT GIVES HIM THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TALK ABOUT THAT,
AND BRING IT HOME AND AWAY HE
WAS ABLE TO DO BEFORE. IS NOT A
THEORETICAL DISCUSSION ANYMORE.
IT IS A LIVE DISCUSSION AT THESE
RUSSIAN TROOPS ARE BOMBARDING
THE CITIES OF UKRAINE. BUT THE
QUESTION IS, WE KNOW THAT THE
SANCTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN IMPOSED
ARE NOT ONLY GOING TO, YOU KNOW,
BRING TREMENDOUS COST TO THE
RUSSIAN ECONOMY AND THE RUSSIAN
PEOPLE AND RUSSIAN OLIGARCHS, IT
IS GOING TO HAVE AN IMPACT HERE
AT HOME. AND IN A COUNTRY THAT
IS ALREADY FEELING THE EFFECTS
OF RISING GAS PRICES AND RISING
GROCERY PRICES AND HIGHER CAR
PRICES AND ALL KINDS OF THINGS,
THAT IS LIKELY TO GET WORSE.
AND, HE IS GOING TO HAVE TO TRY
TO EXPLAIN WHAT HE IS GOING TO
DO TO TRY TO MITIGATE THAT. HE
CAN'T SOLVE THAT PROBLEM, IN
PART, BECAUSE THE POLICIES THAT
HE AND OUR EUROPEAN ALLIES HAVE
BEGUN TO IMPLEMENT ARE GOING TO
CAUSE THOSE THINGS TO BE WORSE.
SO, HE IS GOING TO HAVE TO TRY
TO DO KIND OF A DELICATE
BALANCING ACT IN EXPLAINING WHY
THIS IS WORTH IT. WHY THE UNITED
STATES HAS TO LEAD IN A MOMENT
LIKE THIS. AND, SOME OF THE
SACRIFICES THAT MAY BE BORN AT
HOME. BUT THAT IS NOT A MESSAGE
THAT IS NECESSARILY GOING TO BE
WELL RECEIVED HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES.
&gt;&gt;&gt; WE ARE WATCHING THE GUESTS
OF THE FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED
STATES COME INTO THAT TOP
CHAMBER THERE. AMONG HER GUESTS,
THE UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE
UNITED STATES. A SYMBOLIC
ADDITION TO THE GUEST LIST.
OTHER GUESTS OF THE FIRST LADY
TONIGHT INCLUDE FRANCIS HAUGAN,
THE FACEBOOK  WHISTLEBLOWER. WE
WILL ALSO SEE THE CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OF INTEL. WE WILL SEE
A NURSE WHO HAS BEEN TREATING
COVID PATIENTS. ALSO, A
STEELWORKER, AND A SEVENTH
GRADER LOCALLY HERE FROM
VIRGINIA. JOSHUA DAVIS IS A
DIABETES ADVOCATE. AND A MIDDLE
SCHOOL STUDENT. THAT IS JUST
SOME OF WHO WE WILL SEE JOINING
THE FIRST LADY TONIGHT. YOU
KNOW, DAN, WE WERE TALKING A
LITTLE WHILE AGO ABOUT THE
HOLDBACK BETTER AGENDA AND, YOU
KNOW, JUST THE COUNTER EFFORTS
THAT THAT MAN RIGHT THERE, JOE
MENTIONED DID, TO SORT OF BRING
HIS PARTY TO ITS HEELS AS IT
TRIED TO PASS ITS DOMESTIC
AGENDA. YOU KNOW, WE WONDERED IF
WE COULD HEAR THE WORDS BUILD A
BETTER TONIGHT. WE WILL HEAR
COMPONENTS OF THAT LEGISLATION
THAT THE PRESIDENT AND HIS TEAM
THINK THEY CAN STILL GET
THROUGH. HOW SIGNIFICANT IS IT,
THOUGH, THAT IT HAS BEEN SO
PAIRED BACK?
&gt;&gt; IT IS VERY SIGNIFICANT
OBVIOUSLY. IT IS THE THIRD
PILLAR OF HIS DOMESTIC AGENDA
THAT BEGAN WITH THE AMERICAN
RESCUE PLAN. AND THEN, THE
BIPARTISAN INFRASTRUCTURE BILL.
BUT IN MANY WAYS, TOO MANY
PEOPLE IN THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY,
PARTICULARLY THE ACTIVIST WING
OF THE PARTY, THE BUILD BACK
BETTER BILL WAS REALLY THE KIND
OF BE-ALL AND END-ALL FOR WHAT
THEY WERE LOOKING FOR. BECAUSE
IT WAS AN EFFORT TO FINALLY DO
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT THEY
HAVE WANTED TO DO IN TERMS OF
EXPANDING DOMESTIC PROGRAMS AND
DOMESTIC SAFETY NET PROGRAMS,
AND ALSO, DEALING WITH THE
THREAT OF CLIMATE CHANGE. SO,
THE FACT THAT THAT HAS BEEN, YOU
KNOW, IF NOT SCUTTLED, CERTAINLY
PUT WAY ON THE BACK BURNER, HAS
BEEN A BLOW TO HIS PRESIDENCY
AND TO MANY PEOPLE IN THE
DEMOCRATIC 30. AND THE QUESTION
IS, TO WHAT EXTENT ARE THE ABLE
TO RESURRECT PIECES OF IT? AND,
HOW ARE THEY GOING TO BE ABLE TO
DO THAT? I THINK TONIGHT, HE IS
GOING TO HAVE TO BEGIN TO SAY,
HERE IS WHAT WE WOULD LIKE TO
DO. AND HERE MAYBE SOME OF THE
PRIORITIES. I DON'T KNOW HOW
DEEPLY HE WILL GO INTO THAT.
THAT YOU KNOW, THAT IS A LITTLE
BIT OF SAUSAGE MAKING, FRANKLY,
THAT, FOR A BIG, DOMESTIC
AUDIENCE, ISN'T NECESSARILY
GOING TO, YOU KNOW, RESONATE
THAT MUCH. BUT, HE HAS TO TALK
ABOUT WHAT HE WANTS TO DO ON THE
DOMESTIC FRONT. MY GUESS IS,
AGAIN, BASED ON THE LIMITED
EXCERPTS WE HAVE SEEN OF THE
SPEECH, HE IS GOING TO TRY TO
PUT A LOT OF THIS IN THE CONTEXT
OF DEALING WITH INFLATION. THAT
THE THINGS HE IS DOING OUR AIMED
AT LOWERING PRICES. AT EASING
THE PAIN THAT PEOPLE ARE FEELING
AT THE PUMP OR AT THE GROCERY
STORE. AND THAT SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT HE WANTS TO DO THAT
WERE IN THE BUILD BACK BETTER
BILL WOULD GO SOME WAYS TO
BEGINNING TO DO THAT. BUT AGAIN,
HE IS IN A DIFFERENT PLACE ON
THAT THAN HE WAS.
&gt;&gt;&gt; JAMES, LET'S TALK ABOUT
ELEMENTS THAT WILL SURVIVE FROM
BUILD BACK BETTER AND PRIORITIES
OF THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION.
THINGS THAT THEY STILL HOPE THEY
CAN RESURRECT THAT. OR, POINTS
THEY BELIEVE CAN FIND BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT, OR, EVEN IF NOT
REPUBLICANS, IN TERMS OF THESE
BODIES RIGHT HERE, INDEPENDENT
VOTERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY. IT IS
ON PRESIDENT BIDEN'S AGENDA?
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT BIDEN IS GOING TO
CALL FOR WHAT HE SAYS IS A UNITY
AGENDA, THAT HE THINKS THAT
THERE ARE THESE ELEMENTS OF HIS
SOCIAL SPENDING PLAN THAT CAN
GET BIPARTISAN SUPPORT. AND HE
IS GOING TO PRESENT GETTING
SOMETHING DONE, PUTTING POINTS
ON THE BOARD, AS A WAY TO SHOW
AUTOCRACIES IN THE WORLD THAT
THE UNITED STATES CAN GET ITS
ACT TOGETHER, AND CAN STILL PASS
MAJOR PIECES OF LEGISLATION.
INTERESTINGLY, I DON'T EXPECT WE
WILL HEAR THE TERM BUILD BACK
BETTER OTHER PRESIDENTS NOW
TONIGHT. IN THE EARLY DRAFTS OF
THE SPEECH, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT BIDEN WAS GOING TO
EMPHASIZE WAS CLIMATE CHANGE. HE
IS STILL GOING TO MENTION
CLIMATE CHANGE. POLLS SHOW THAT
LIBERAL BASE VOTERS, THAT
REMAINS THE SINGLE MOST
IMPORTANT ISSUE. BUT, THE
UKRAINE CRISIS DOES CHANGE THE
DYNAMIC A LITTLE BIT. ALL OF A
SUDDEN COMING GAS PRICES ARE UP
MORE THAN $1 UP FROM WHERE THEY
WERE A YEAR AGO. OIL PRICES,
OVER $100 A BARREL. IT MAKES IT
HARD TO TALK ABOUT REDUCING FUEL
CONSUMPTION AND THAT KIND OF
THING. SO, HE IS GOING TO HAVE
TO BE CAREFUL ABOUT HOW HE TALKS
ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE. EVEN
THOUGH THAT WAS A HUGE PART OF
BUILD BACK BETTER.
&gt;&gt;&gt; WE ARE HEARING SPEAKER
PELOSI CALL THE CHAMBER TO
ORDER.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THE JOINT SESSION WILL COME
TO ORDER. THE CHAIR APPOINTS AS
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE
PART OF THE HOUSE TO ESCORT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
INTO
THE CHAMBERS.
&gt;&gt;&gt; AS SPEAKER PELOSI GETS
PREPARED FOR PRESIDENT BIDEN TO
COME INTO THE CHAMBER, LET'S GO
TO RHONDA COLVIN TO TALK ABOUT
THE OPTICS OF TONIGHT. RHONDA,
IT IS SO SIGNIFICANT, AND WE
CAN'T FORGET ABOUT THIS TO SEE
TWO WOMEN FLANKING THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES. THE VICE
PRESIDENT, A FEMALE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE. WHAT WILL YOU BE
WATCHING TONIGHT IN TERMS OF
REACTIONS TO THE SPEECH? IN
TERMS OF THE VOLUME, THE
SUPPORT, OR, PERHAPS THE SILENCE
OF MEMBERS IN THIS CHAMBER?
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE ALWAYS IMPORTANT
MOMENTS TO SORT OF READ THE
ROOM. AND I THINK I WILL BE
LISTENING, SINCE UKRAINE SEEMS
TO HAVE BROUGHT SOME SENSE OF
UNITY AMONG DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS HERE ON THE HILL,
YOU KNOW, BOTH SIDES OF THE
AISLE ARE WEARING THE RIBBONS,
WITH THE UKRAINIAN FLAG COLORS,
OR THEY ARE DRESSED IN THE
COLORS. I AM WONDERING HOW THEY
WILL RESPOND WHEN HE
SPECIFICALLY TALKS ABOUT THE
UKRAINE ISSUE? ARE YOU GOING TO
HEAR APPLAUSE OR ANY SORT OF
AUDIBLE SUPPORT ON THAT ISSUE? I
THINK ALSO, IF HE MENTIONS HIS
SUPREME COURT NOMINEE, WHO, HAS
STARTED THE PROCESS OF TOURING
THE
HILL SOON. HOW PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO REACT TO THAT. THAT IS ONE OF
THE THINGS WE WILL BE WATCHING
FOR SOON. THE CONFIRMATION
HEARING PROCESS. THERE IS JUST
SO MUCH TO WATCH WHEN YOU ARE
LOOKING AT BOTH OF THE VERBAL
AND ALSO, THE THINGS THAT ARE
NOT SET IN THE ROOM. YOU KNOW,
WHAT ARE THE FACES LIKE OF SOME
OF THE REPUBLICANS LEADERS IN
THE SENATE? WHAT DO THEY LOOK
LIKE WHEN HE BRINGS UP SOME OF
THOSE PIECES OF HIS AGENDA UP
THAT THEY HAVE SAID THAT THEY
DON'T SUPPORT? THIS IS A MOMENT
WHERE THE DEMOCRATS AS WELL,
ESPECIALLY IN THE HOUSE, SINCE
WE HAVE SEEN SO MANY DECIDE NOT
TO RUN FOR REELECTION, THEY ARE
GOING TO NEED HIM TO SORT OF
RALLY THE TROOPS HERE, BECAUSE,
WE ARE IN PRIMARY SEASON. IN
FACT, TONIGHT IS THE TEXAS
PRIMARY WE'RE HEADING INTO THE
MIDTERM, SO, THE DEMOCRATS ARE
GOING TO NEED HIM TO ALSO RALLY
FOR THEM. THAT IS ANOTHER
PURPOSE OF THIS SPEECH.
&gt;&gt;&gt; HANNAH JEWELL TO TALK ABOUT
THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE, WHICH
WILL BE DELIVERED AFTER
PRESIDENT BIDEN SPEAKS.
TONIGHT'S RESPONSE WILL COME
FROM IOWA GOVERNOR, KIM
REYNOLDS. TELL US MORE.
&gt;&gt;&gt; AND REYNOLDS HAS BEEN THE
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR OF IOWA
SINCE 2017. WHERE SHE IS VERY
POPULAR IN THAT STATE, THOUGH
ONLY AMONG REPUBLICANS, SHE IS A
MORE SORT OF POLARIZING FIGURE
THAN OTHER SORT OF STATE-LEVEL
REPUBLICANS. IN THAT STATE. AND
SHE WAS PICKED BECAUSE SHE SORT
OF IS A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
KIND OF, YOU KNOW, GOVERNOR, THE
KIND OF REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP
THAT REPUBLICANS WANT TO PROJECT
GOING INTO THE MIDTERMS AT THE
END OF THIS YEAR. PARTICULARLY
IN HER HANDLING OF COVERT. AND,
SHE OPPOSED VACCINE MANDATES.
SHIA POST MASK MANDATES. SHE
KEPT SCHOOLS OPEN FOR MOST OF
THE PANDEMIC. AND SHE IS SOMEONE
WHO HOUSE MINORITY LEADER KEVIN
McCARTHY HAS SAID, SHE KEPT KIDS
IN SCHOOL, AND CRITICAL RACE
THEORY OUT. SO, YOU SEE THERE
HOW SHE IS REALLY PROJECTING
THESE REALLY IMPORTANT ISSUES TO
REPUBLICANS. AND I THINK IT WILL
BE INTERESTING TO SEE HOW SHE
RESPONDS, YOU KNOW, AS A
GOVERNOR OF A STATE
THAT IS GOING TO DRIVE SO
HEAVILY, BE DRIVEN BY FOREIGN
POLICY ASPECTS. WE CAN EXPECT
HER TO PRAISE THE UKRAINIAN
RESISTANCE TO RUSSIA'S INVASION,
BUT ALSO TO CAST BLAME FOR IT ON
BIDEN, REFERENCING, FOR EXAMPLE,
THE WITHDRAWAL FROM AFGHANISTAN.
&gt;&gt;&gt; WE JUST OF THE DIPLOMATIC
CORPS WELCOMED INTO THE CHAMBER.
JAMES, THE MEMBERS OF THE
CABINET ARE HERE, BUT THERE IS A
DESIGNATED SURVIVOR, AS THERE IS
EVERY YEAR. WHAT IS YOUR
REPORTING TELL YOU? WHAT IS LEFT
BEHIND TONIGHT?
&gt;&gt; THE PERSON FAMILIAR SAID THE
PERSON TONIGHT AS COMMERCE
SECRETARY GINA REV ANDO. THE
FORMER GOVERNOR OF RHODE ISLAND,
SORT OF A RISING STAR FROM THE
MODERATE RING OF THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY. SOMEONE WHO POTENTIALLY
HAS PRESIDENTIAL AMBITIONS.
SOMEONE WHO IS CONSIDERED AS
PART OF THE VEEPSTAKES.
&gt;&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT A
QUESTIONABLE ITEM ON TONIGHT'S
AGENDA. BANNING MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS FROM TRADING STOCKS. WE
WONDERED IF IT WOULD MAKE IT
INTO THE SPEECH. WHAT ARE WE
WATCHING FOR, LISTENING FOR,
JAMES?
&gt;&gt; A MEMBER OF CONGRESS TOLD ME
THAT, IT HAS BEEN PART OF
DRAFTS. IT HAS BEEN INCLUDED IN
SOME DRAFTS. IT IS AN OPEN
QUESTION OF WHETHER IT IS GOING
TO SURVIVE. WHETHER THEY WILL
TAKE THAT OUT. IT IS OBVIOUSLY
NOT SUPER POPULAR WITH SOME
MEMBERS TO BAN LAWMAKERS FROM
TRADING STOCKS. NANCY PELOSI,
SEVERAL MONTHS AGO, SAID THAT
THIS IS A CAPITALIST SOCIETY AND
MEMBERS SHOULD HAVE SKIN IN THE
GAME. POLLS SHOW OVERWHELMING
MAJORITIES OF AMERICANS WANT TO
STOP LAWMAKERS FROM TRADING
STOCKS. THIS COULD BECOME A
REALLY POTENT POLITICAL ISSUE
FOR REPUBLICANS IN THE MIDTERM
ELECTIONS. SO, YOU CAN SEE THE
PRESIDENT MAKE THIS
ANNOUNCEMENT. BUT IF HE DOES, IT
IS ONE OF THOSE WILD
ANNOUNCEMENTS TO MAKE TO ENDORSE
THIS KIND OF LEGISLATION BEFORE
ALL THESE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS,
AND IT WOULD BE QUITE
FASCINATING TO SEE HOW PEOPLE
WOULD RESPOND. THIS IS ONE OF
THOSE THINGS THAT MAY GET CUT
AND LEFT ON THE CUTTING ROOM
FLOOR.
&gt;&gt;&gt; DAN BALZ, LET'S BRING YOU
IN ON JUST HOW IMPORTANT THE
STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS IS.
IN THIS MODERN MOMENT, IN THIS
MODERN ERA. YOU KNOW, SHORT
CLIPS, SHORT VIDEOS REALLY ARE
THE THINGS THAT SORT OF, YOU
KNOW, PAYING ACROSS THE WEB AND
PAYING ACROSS OUR CONSCIOUSNESS.
HOW SIGNIFICANT OR IMPORTANT IS
THIS LONG, HOUR-LONG SPEECH,
THAT A PRESIDENT GIVES ONCE A
YEAR?
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, I THINK OVER THE
YEARS, THE SIGNIFICANCE OF IT
HAS GONE DOWNHILL. I DON'T THINK
IT CARRIES QUITE THE WAY THAT IT
WEDNESDAY. AUDIENCES ARE NOT AS
BIG AS THEY USED TO BE. AS YOU
SUGGEST, PEOPLE GET THEIR NEWS
IN DIFFERENT WAYS, AND THEY GET
IT IN SNIPPETS AND GET IT ON THE
PHONE. THEY ARE NOT NECESSARILY
TUNING IN FOR THE FULL HOUR OF
THE SPEECH. SO, THAT IS, IN
ESSENCE, KIND OF THE POLITICAL
REALITY OF IT. YET, WE KNOW THAT
EACH YEAR, IS A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF WORK INVESTED IN THIS
SPEECH. THERE IS SERIOUS TO
RATES WITHIN THE ADMINISTRATION.
IN THE ADMINISTRATION ABOUT WHAT
GOES IN AND WHAT DOESN'T GET
INTO THE SPEECH. THERE IS
CAREFUL THOUGHT TO THE
STAGECRAFT OF THE SPEECH. AND
SO, A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
INTENSE WORK SURROUNDS THIS
MOMENT. AND, IT IS THE KIND OF
THING WHERE NO PRESIDENT
TAKE IT LIGHTLY. NO
ADMINISTRATION CAN AFFORD TO
KIND OF WINGED AT THE STATE OF
THE UNION. AND AS I SAID
EARLIER, WE ARE ANY PARTICULAR
MOMENT. I MEAN, IT IS UNUSUAL
FOR A STATE OF THE UNION TO
COINCIDE WITH THIS KIND OF
FOREIGN-POLICY CRISIS. SO, I
THINK THAT GIVES HEIGHTENED
ATTENTION. BUT WHETHER WHAT HE
SAYS IS LONG-LASTING, I AM A
LITTLE BIT SKEPTICAL. I THINK
THAT WHATEVER MESSAGE HE HAS
TONIGHT IS ONE THAT HE IS GOING
TO HAVE TO CONTINUE TO DELIVER
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. AND
FRANKLY, TO THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GLAD THAT YOU ARE --
WATCHING US HERE TONIGHT WITH
THE WASHINGTON POST. WE WILL
BRING YOU THE SPEECH, OF COURSE,
IN ITS ENTIRETY. WE WILL HAVE
THE REPULSIVE REBUTTAL
AFTERWARDS AND WE WILL HAVE
ANALYSIS FROM OUR WASHINGTON
POST COLLEAGUES. DAN BALZ, YOU
KNOW,  THE STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS CAN BE A KICKOFF FOR
WHAT COMES NEXT, RIGHT? THE
PRESIDENT TYPICALLY GOES ON THE
ROAD TO SELL THE IDEAS. AND AS
WE LOOK AT JUST HOW MUCH MONEY
MIGHT BE SPENT ON CERTAIN
PRIORITIES, WE WON'T GET
NECESSARILY BOTTOM LINES
TONIGHT. WE MIGHT GET SOME. BUT
A LOT OF THOSE BOTTOM LINES WILL
COME LATER, AS THE BUDGET IS
CRAFTED. I JUST WANT TO POINT
OUT OF COURSE, THE FIRST LADY OF
THE UNITED STATES, JOE BIDEN,
AND THE SECOND GENTLEMAN, DOUG
IMHOFF COMING IN THE. WILL COME
BACK TO YOU IN A MOMENT DOWN,
BUT AS WE WATCH FOR A MOMENT,
THE FIRST LADY GREETING THE
UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE
UNITED STATES. AND YOU SEE
THERE, THE OTHER GUESTS OF THE
FIRST LADY. WE SAW MEMBERS OF
THE SUPREME COURT COME IN A
MOMENT AGO. THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
AS WELL AS FOR OTHER JUSTICES,
INCLUDING JUSTICE BREYER, AND
WHAT WE EXPECT TO BE HIS FINAL
APPEARANCE HERE, AS HE HAS
ANNOUNCED HIS RETIREMENT PENDING
THE CONFIRMATION OF HIS
SUCCESSOR. SO, DAN, THIS KICKS
OFF GOING ON THE ROAD AND
GETTING SOME HARD NUMBERS ABOUT
THE BUDGET AND WHAT THE
PRESIDENT REALLY WANTS TO SEE.
&gt;&gt;&gt; EVERY PRESIDENT IN RECENT
MEMORY GOES ON THE ROAD RIGHT
AFTER THE STATE OF THE UNION
MESSAGE. THE STATE OF THE UNION
IS A BIG MOMENT. THEY WANT TO
TRY TO BUILD ON WHATEVER
MOMENTUM THEY GET OUT OF THE
SPEECH. WHATEVER GUT REACTION
THEY GET OUT OF THE SPEECH. AND,
THEY WANT TO GO OUT INTO THE
COUNTRY AND BEGIN TO HAVE THAT
RIPPLE BEYOND, YOU KNOW, THE
BELTWAY AND THE BORDERS OF
WASHINGTON. BUT, YOU KNOW, THIS
IS A PRESIDENT WHO HAS AN
ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF STUFF ON HIS
PLATE. AND, HOW MUCH HE WILL BE
ABLE TO JUGGLE ALL OF THAT. HE
HAD SAID, YOU KNOW, A MONTH OR
SO AGO, THAT HE INTENDED TO GET
OUT OF WASHINGTON MORE IN HIS
SECOND YEAR THAN HE WAS ABLE TO
DO IN THE FIRST YEAR. AND NOW,
HE SUDDENLY HAS THIS ENORMOUS
FOREIGN-POLICY CRISIS. THAT IS
CONSUMING A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT
OF HIS TIME, JUST -- THE AMOUNT
OF DIPLOMATIC WORK THAT HE IS
DOING AND OTHERS IN HIS
ADMINISTRATION ARE DOING BEHIND
THE SCENES. SO, HE IS GOING TO
BE LIMITED IN HOW MUCH HE IS
GOING TO BE ABLE TO GET OUT WORK
AND, I THINK THAT THE PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO ULTIMATELY MAKE THEIR
JUDGMENTS ON HOW THEY FEEL ABOUT
THEIR OWN LIVES, THEIR OWN
ECONOMIES, THEIR OWN FINANCES,
AND HOW WELL HE IS DEALING WITH,
YOU KNOW, THE BIG CHALLENGES
BOTH HERE AND ABROAD.
&gt;&gt;&gt; RHONDA, WE HAVE WATCHED THE
CABIN COME IN. AND OF COURSE,
SOME OF THE PEOPLE WE ARE
WATCHING CLOSELY, THE SECRETARY
OF STATE. THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE. THEY LED THE GROUP IN
EARLY THERE A FEW MOMENTS AGO.
TALK TO US ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
CABINET, WHO IS HERE TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT. WE SAW LLOYD
AUSTIN. OF COURSE, HE IS OVER,
HAS A BIG ROLE RIGHT NOW, GIVEN
THE SITUATION IN UKRAINE. AS
DOES THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
ANTONY BLINKEN. YOU ALMOST, IF
YOU LOOK AT THE FACES, YOU KNOW,
YOU WONDER WHAT IS GOING ON IN
THEIR MINDS, BECAUSE THEY ARE
DEALING WITH SO MUCH ON THE
FRONTS. I BELIEVE I HAVE ALSO
SEEN THE ENERGY SECRETARY. I
HAVE SEEN THE EDUCATION
SECRETARY. ALL OF THEM SEEM TO
BE THERE AND IN SUPPORT OF
BIDEN, OF COURSE, EXCEPT THE
DESIGNATED SURVIVOR, WHICH JAMES
JUST TALKED ABOUT. THIS SHOWS,
THIS IS DIFFERENT FROM LAST
YEAR, BECAUSE EVERYONE DID NOT
COME. THAT OF COURSE WAS BECAUSE
OF COVERT RESTRICTIONS. BUT,
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT MOMENT FOR
THE PRESIDENT TO HAVE HIS PEOPLE
BEHIND HIM, SITTING THERE, AS
PART OF THIS AUDIENCE TONIGHT.
THIS IS, HE DEFINITELY WILL
PROBABLY WANT TO LOOK AT LLOYD
AUSTIN'S FACE A PRESIDENT BIDEN
TALKS ABOUT THE TROOPS, OR LOOK
AT ANTONY BLINKEN'S FACE AS THE
UKRAINE ISSUE IS MENTIONED. IT
IS CERTAINLY AN INCREDIBLE NIGHT
SO MANY ISSUES THAT THE
PRESIDENT IS GOING TO HAVE TO GO
OVER, AND HE HAS MOST OF HIS
CABINET THERE.
&gt;&gt;&gt; JAMES, THE PRESIDENT WILL
SPEAK IN JUST A FEW MINUTES. WE
DO EXPECT HIM TO COME INTO THE
HOUSE CHAMBER SHORTLY. IT STILL
FEELS ROOMY IN HERE. RHONDA HAS
TALKED ABOUT HOW MANY MORE
PEOPLE ARE HERE THEY WERE HERE
LAST YEAR. BUT, THE STATE OF THE
UNION TO ME HAS THIS FEEL OF,
PACKED TO THE GILLS. WHEN I HAVE
BEEN THERE INSIDE THE CHAMBER,
IT IS ELBOW TO ELBOW. AND THERE
IS SOMETHING THAT IS REALLY
ROBUST AND ALIVE ABOUT THE.
TONIGHT, THINGS CAN BREAK.
&gt;&gt; IT REALLY DOES TAKE ON ENERGY
OF ITS OWN. WHEN YOU ARE IN THE
CHAMBER. EVEN WHEN ONLY HALF THE
MEMBERS ARE APPLAUDING FOR
SOMETHING, YOU CAN REALLY, I
MEAN, IT JUST GETS PHYSICALLY
HOT IN THERE UNDER THE
TELEVISION LIGHTS WITH EVERYONE
THERE. IT IS NOT QUITE AT FULL
CAPACITY. AND, THAT DOES HAVE AN
IMPACT ON THE ROOM, ON THE
SPEAKER. IT IS ONE OF THE THINGS
WHERE IT IS REALLY HARD TO
REHEARSE FOR A STATE OF THE
UNION, BECAUSE YOU ARE TALKING
YOU KNOW, TO YOURSELF AND THERE
IS HIS AUDIENCE AND YOU DON'T
KNOW WHO IS GOING TO APPLAUD OR
HOW LONG THEY WILL APPLY FOR.
SOMETIMES, LAWMAKERS STAND UP
FOR THINGS THAT PRESIDENTS DON'T
EXPECT THEM TO STAND UP FOR.
SOMETIMES, PRESIDENTS THINK THEY
HAVE AN APPLAUSE LINE, OR A
STANDING OVATION LINE AND THEY
DON'T GET IT, EITHER BECAUSE
THEY DON'T DELIVER IT RIGHT, OR
BECAUSE IT JUST SORT OF FALLS
FLAT IN THE DELIVERY. THAT IS
ONE OF THE REASONS IT IS SO FUN
TO WATCH THESE, BECAUSE THERE IS
SO MUCH, YOU KNOW, WE SEE THE
JUSTICES THERE, JUSTICE AMY
CONEY BARRETT AND JUSTICE BRETT
CAVANAUGH, DURING BARACK OBAMA'S
STATE OF THE UNION IN 2010, THE
PRESIDENT WAS CRITICIZING THE
CITIZENS UNITED DECISION. AND,
JUSTICE SAM ALITO SAID YOUR
LINE. YOU COULD SEE HIM MOUTHING
IT. SO, YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT YOU
ARE GOING TO GET WHEN YOU BRING
ALL THESE VERY POWERFUL PEOPLE
INTO THIS AUGUST CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt; DAN. WATCHING THE DYNAMICS,
WATCHING EVEN THIS MOMENT HERE,
SAYING YOU KNOW, A SENATOR GET
TO SPEAK TO THE CHIEF JUSTICE.
SEEING THERE, THE SOON TO BE
RETIRED TO JUSTICE. THERE IS
THIS MOMENT THAT REFLECTS ON
DEMOCRACY. AND, THE AMERICAN
SPIRIT. YOU KNOW, WATCHING THE
COLLEGIALITY. WATCHING THE
SENATORS PROCESS TO STATUARY
HALL AND SEEING A REPUBLICAN
STANDING NEXT TO A DEMOCRAT. DO
YOU HOLD OUT HOPE TO SEE MOMENTS
OF COLLEGIALITY AND UNITY
TONIGHT?
&gt;&gt; I DO. AND I THINK THAT
CERTAINLY IT HAS BEEN SAID. I
THINK ON UKRAINE, THERE WILL BE
A FAIR AMOUNT OF UNITY. THERE
MAY BE SOME CRITICISM ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE OF THINGS THAT
BIDEN, THAT THEY THINK BIDEN
DIDN'T DO OR SHOULD HAVE DONE.
BUT, IN THE SENSE OF BEING
UNITED AGAINST PUTIN AND RUSSIA,
THERE ARE VERY FEW DISSENTERS ON
THAT PART AND I WOULD THINK THAT
WHEN THE PRESIDENT IS SPEAKING
ABOUT THAT, WE WILL SEE THAT
UNITY. I THINK THE OTHER
QUESTION IS WHETHER THERE IS ANY
UNITY AT ALL ON ANY PIECES OF
THE DOMESTIC AGENDA. BECAUSE, WE
KNOW THE DIVISIONS THERE HAVE
BEEN SO SHARP AND THAT THE
REPUBLICANS, WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE PACKAGE
HAVE BEEN WHOLLY OPPOSED TO THE
THINGS THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
TRIED TO DO. SO, I THINK THAT
WILL BE THE REAL MEASURE. BUT IT
IS ALWAYS FASCINATING ON A NIGHT
LIKE THIS, ON THIS PARTICULAR
NIGHT, WHEN, IN ESSENCE, THE
THREE BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT ARE
ALL IN THE HOUSE CHAMBER. AND,
MINGLING TOGETHER IN WAYS THAT
THEY NEVER OTHERWISE WOULD DO.
AND, THERE IS A SORT OF, A
FRIENDLINESS ABOUT IT, EVEN
THOUGH, THE MINUTE THEY STEP OUT
OF THE CHAMBER TONIGHT, THEY
WILL KINDA GO BACK TO THEIR OWN
BARRICADES AND RESUME THE
BATTLING THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
GOING ON. BUT, FOR AT LEAST A
FEW MOMENTS, AND FRANKLY, UNTIL
THE SPEECH STARTS, THERE IS A
SENSE OF CAMARADERIE, AND A KIND
OF A NOTION THAT THIS IS THE
COMMUNITY OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL
GOVERNMENT.
&gt;&gt; DAN, THAT SHOULD NOT BE
REMARKABLE, BUT GIVEN THE
INSURRECTION ON THE CAPITAL LAST
YEAR, GIVEN SOME OF THE THREATS
THAT LAWMAKERS SAID THEY HAVE
FELT UNDER EVEN BY MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS THEMSELVES. IT IS STILL
IMPORTANT, DOWN.
&gt;&gt; IT IS VERY IMPORTANT. AND WE
ARE OBVIOUSLY NOT THAT FAR AWAY
FROM JANUARY 6th. AND, THOSE,
YOU KNOW, THOSE WOUNDS ARE STILL
OPEN AND ROB. FOR MANY PEOPLE.
AND AGAIN, I SAY I DON'T THINK A
NIGHT LIKE THIS GOES AT ALL TO
ERASE THAT. BUT, IT IS THE
MOMENT FOR THE PRESIDENT TO TRY
TO SPEAK TO THE COUNTRY AND FOR
THE PEOPLE IN THE LEGISLATIVE
BRANCH TO BEGIN TO GIVE SOME
SENSE OF A REACTION.
&gt;&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT BITING GRADING
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AS HE COMES
THROUGH THAT CENTER AISLE.
GETTING A SEAT IN THE CENTER
AISLE HAS TRADITIONALLY BEEN A
HOT SEAT TO BE ON. AS YOU GET A
MOMENT WITH THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES. YOU SEE A LOT OF
BLUE AND YELLOW THERE. MEMBERS
OF THE HOUSE AND SENATE WEARING
THE COLORS OF UKRAINE TO SUPPORT
THAT COUNTRY AS IT WITHSTANDS
THE ATTACKS BY RUSSIA. YOU ARE
ALSO SEEING A LACK OF MASKS.
ONLY A HANDFUL OF MEMBERS
WEARING MASKS TONIGHT. THEY ARE
NO LONGER REQUIRED IN THE HOUSE
CHAMBER. AND THE OPTICS OF THIS
MOMENT WILL BE SOMETHING THAT
THE PRESIDENT CAN CERTAINLY
SPEAK TO, AS HE TALKS ABOUT THE
CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC TWO YEARS
IN. THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE FROM
THE WASHINGTON POST. WE WILL BE
BRINGING YOU TONIGHT'S SPEECH.
THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE, AS WELL
AS ANALYSIS. AFTER PRESIDENT
RYDEN'S FIRST STATE OF THE
UNION.
&gt;&gt;&gt; MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS. I HAVE A HIGH
PRIVILEGE AND DISTINCT HONOR OF
PRESENTING TO YOU THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, THANK YOU,
THANK YOU. THANK YOU ALL VERY
MUCH. THANK YOU, GENTLEMAN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. THANK YOU ALL VERY,
VERY MUCH. THANK
YOU. PLEASE. THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MADAM SPEAKER, MADAM VICE
PRESIDENT AND OUR FIRST LADY AND
SECOND GENTLEMAN. MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS AND THE CABINET,
JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT. MY
FELLOW AMERICANS. LAST YEAR,
COVID-19 KEPT US APART. THIS
YEAR, WE ARE FINALLY TOGETHER
AGAIN. TONIGHT.
TONIGHT, WE MEET AS DEMOCRATS,
REPUBLICANS AND INDEPENDENTS.
BUT MOST IMPORTANTLY, AS
AMERICANS. WITH A DUTY TO ONE
ANOTHER, TO AMERICA, TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, TO THE
CONSTITUTION. AND IN AN
UNWAVERING RESOLVE THAT FREEDOM
WILL ALWAYS TRIUMPH
OVER TYRANNY.
&gt;&gt;
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; SIX DAYS AGO, RUSSIA'S
VLADIMIR PUTIN'S SOUGHT TO SHAKE
THE VERY FOUNDATIONS OF THE FREE
WORLD, THINKING HE COULD MAKE IT
BEND TO HIS
MENACING WAYS. BUT HE BADLY
MISCALCULATED. HE THOUGHT HE
COULD ROLL INTO UKRAINE AND THE
WORLD WOULD ROLLOVER. INSTEAD,
HE MET WITH A WALL OF STRENGTH
HE NEVER ANTICIPATED OR
IMAGINED. HE MET THE UKRAINIAN
PEOPLE.
WHEN
PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY
, TO EVERY UKRAINIAN, THEIR
FEARLESSNESS, THEIR COURAGE,
THEIR DETERMINATION, LITERALLY
INSPIRES THE WORLD. GROUPS
OF CITIZENS BLOCKING TANKS WITH
THEIR BODIES. EVERYONE FROM
STUDENTS TO RETIREES TO
TEACHERS, TURNED SOLDIERS.
DEFENDING THEIR HOMELAND. AND IN
THE STRUGGLE, PRESIDENT
ZELENSKYY SAID IN HIS SPEECH,
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, LIGHT
WILL WIN OVER DARKNESS.
UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR OF THE
UNITED STATES IS HERE TONIGHT
SITTING WITH THE FIRST LADY.
LET'S EACH OF US, IF YOU'RE ABLE
TO STAND, STAND AND SEND AN
UNMISTAKABLE SIGNAL TO THE
WORLD. UKRAINE. THANK YOU. THANK
YOU, THANK YOU,
THANK YOU.
YOU TWICE AS STRONG AS
YOU RESOLVE.
&gt;&gt; YES. WE, THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, STAND WITH THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE. THROUGHOUT OUR
HISTORY, WE HAVE LEARNED THIS
LESSON. WHEN DICTATORS DO NOT
PAY A PRICE FOR THEIR
AGGRESSION, THEY CAUSE
MORE CHAOS. THEY KEEP MOVING.
AND THE COST AND THREATS TO
AMERICA AND AMERICA TO THE WORLD
KEEPS RISING. THAT IS WHY THE
NATO ALLIANCE WAS CREATED, TO
SECURE PEACE AND STABILITY IN
EUROPE AFTER WORLD WAR II. THE
UNITED STATES IS A MEMBER, ALONG
WITH 29 OTHER NATIONS. IT
MATTERS. AMERICAN DIPLOMACY
MATTERS. AMERICAN RESOLVE
MATTERS. PUTIN'S LATEST ATTACK
ON UKRAINE WAS PREMEDITATED AND
TOTALLY UNPROVOKED. HE REJECTED
BRIEF HEATED, REPEATED EFFORTS
AT DIPLOMACY. HE THOUGHT THE
WEST AND NATO WOULDN'T RESPOND.
HE THOUGHT HE COULD DIVIDE US AT
HOME, IN THIS CHAMBER AND THIS
NATION. HE THOUGHT HE COULD
DIVIDE US IN EUROPE AS WELL. BUT
PUTIN
WAS WRONG. WE ARE READY. WE ARE
UNITED, AND THAT IS WHAT WE DID.
WE STAYED AT UNITED. WE PRAY
PAIRED EXTENSIVELY AND
CAREFULLY. WE SPENT MONTHS
BUILDING COALITIONS OF OTHER
FREEDOM LOVING NATIONS IN
EUROPE, AND THE AMERICAS, FROM
AMERICAN TO ASIAN AND AFRICAN
CONTINENTS, TO CONFRONT PUTIN.
LIKE MANY OF YOU, I SPENT
COUNTLESS HOURS UNIFYING OUR
EUROPEAN ALLIES. WE SHARED WITH
THE WORLD IN ADVANCE WHAT WE
KNEW PUTIN WAS PLANNING. AND
PRECISELY HOW WE HE WOULD TRY TO
FALSIFY AND JUSTIFY HIS
AGGRESSION. WE COUNTERED
RUSSIA'S LIES WITH THE TRUTH.
AND NOW, NOW HE HAS
FREE WORLD IS HOLDING HIM
ACCOUNTABLE. ALONG WITH 27
MEMBERS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
INCLUDING FRANCE, GERMANY,
ITALY, AS WELL AS COUNTRIES LIKE
THE UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
KOREA, NEW ZEALAND. MANY OTHERS,
EVEN SWITZERLAND ARE INFLICTING
PAIN ON RUSSIA. AND SUPPORTING
THE PEOPLE OF UKRAINE. PUTIN IS
NOW ISOLATED FROM THE WORLD MORE
THAN HE HAS
EVER BEEN.
&gt;&gt; TOGETHER, ALONG WITH OUR
ALLIES, WE ARE RIGHT NOW
ENFORCING POWERFUL ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS. WE ARE CUTTING OFF
RUSSIA'S LARGEST BANKS AND
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM.
PREVENTING BRUSHES CENTER BANK
FROM DEFENDING THE RUSSIAN
RUBLE. MAKING PUTIN 630 MILLION
DOLLAR WAR FUND WORTHLESS. WE
ARE CHOKING
RUSSIA'S ACCESS. WE ARE CHOKING
RUSSIA'S ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY
THAT WILL
SO,, SEPARATES ECONOMIC AND WE
CAN IT'S MILITARY FOR YEARS TO
COME. TONIGHT, I SAY TO THE
RUSSIAN OLIGARCHS AND THE
CORRUPT LEADERS WHO WILL ALIENS
OF DOLLARS OFF THIS VIOLENT
REGIME, NO MORE. THE UNITED
STATES, I MEAN IT.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE ASSEMBLING A DEDICATED
TASK FORCE TO GO AFTER THE
CRIMES OF THE RUSSIAN OLIGARCHS.
WE ARE JOINING WITH EUROPEAN
ALLIES TO FIND AND TO SEIZE
THEIR YACHTS, THE LUXURY
APARTMENTS, THEIR PRIVATE JETS.
WE ARE COMING FOR YOU. YOUR ILL
BEGOTTEN GAINS. AND TONIGHT, I
AM ANNOUNCING THAT WE WILL JOIN
OUR ALLIES IN CLOSING OFF
AMERICAN AIRSPACE TO ALL RUSSIAN
FLIGHTS. -- ADDING ADDITIONAL
SQUEEZE ON THEIR ECONOMY. HE HAD
NO
RUBLE HAS ALREADY LOST 30% OF
ITS VALUE. THE RUSSIAN STOCK
MARKET HAS LOST 40% OF ITS VALUE
AND TRADING REMAINS SUSPENDED.
THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY IS REELING,
AND PUTIN ALONE IS THE ONE TO
BLAME. TOGETHER WITH OUR ALLIES,
WE ARE PROVIDING SUPPORT TO THE
UKRAINIANS IN THEIR FIGHT FOR
FREEDOM. MILITARY ASSISTANCE,
ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE,
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE. WE ARE
GIVING MORE THAN A ALIEN DOLLARS
IN DIRECT ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE
AND WILL CONTINUE TO 80
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE AS THEY DEFEND
THEIR COUNTRY AND HELP EASE
THEIR SUFFERING.
&gt;&gt; BUT LET ME BE CLEAR. OUR
FORCES ARE
NOT ENGAGED AND WILL NOT ENGAGE
IN THE CONFLICT WITH RUSSIAN
FORCES
IN UKRAINE. OUR FORCES ARE NOT
GOING TO EUROPE TO FIGHT
UKRAINE, BUT TO DEFEND OUR NATO
ALLIES IN THE EVENT THAT PUTIN
DECIDES TO KEEP MOVING WEST. FOR
THAT PURPOSE, WE HAVE MOBILIZED
AMERICAN GROUND FORCES, AIR
SQUADRONS, SHIP DEPLOYMENTS, TO
DO PROTECT NATO COUNTRIES
INCLUDING POLAND, WITH THE WAY
AND ESTONIA. AS I HAVE MADE
CRYSTAL CLEAR, THE UNITED STATES
AND OUR ALLIES WILL DEFEND EVERY
INCH OF TERRITORY THAT IS NATO
TERRITORY WITH THE FULL FORCE OF
OUR COLLECTIVE POWER. EVERY
SINGLE INCH.
WHEN WE ARE -- CLEAR, UKRAINIANS
ARE FIGHTING BACK
CARRIAGE. THE NEXT FEW DAYS,
WEEKS, AND MONTHS WILL BE HARD
ON THEM. PUTIN HAS UNLEASHED
VIOLENCE AND CHAOS. BUT WHILE HE
MAY MAKE GAINS IN THE
BATTLEFIELD, HE WILL PAY A
CONTINUING HIGH PRICE OVER THE
LONG RUN. AND A POUND OF
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE, THE PROUD,
PROUD PEOPLE, POUND FOR POUND,
READY TO FIGHT WITH EVERY INCH
OF -- THEY HAVE. THEY HAVE KNOWN
30 YEARS OF INDEPENDENCE. HAVE
REPEATEDLY SHOWN THAT THEY WILL
NOT TOLERATE ANYONE WHO TRIES TO
TAKE THE COUNTRY BACKWARDS. TO
ALL AMERICANS, I WILL BE HONEST
YOU AS I ALWAYS PROMISED I WOULD
BE. A RUSSIAN DIG TATER INVADING
A FOREIGN COUNTRY HAS COST
AROUND THE WORLD. AND I AM
TAKING ROBUST ACTION TO MAKE
SURE THE PAIN OF OUR SANCTIONS
IS TARGETED AT THE RUSSIAN
ECONOMY. AND THAT WE USE EVERY
TOOL AT OUR DISPOSAL TO PROTECT
AMERICAN BUSINESSES AND
CONSUMERS. TONIGHT, I CAN
ANNOUNCE THE UNITED STATES HAS
WORKED WITH 30 OTHER COUNTRIES
TO RELEASE 60 MILLION BARRELS OF
OIL FROM RESERVED AROUND THE
WORLD. AMERICA WILL LEAD THAT
EFFORT. RELEASING 30 MILLION
BARRELS FROM
THE STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE
AND WE STAND READY TO DO MORE IF
NECESSARY. UNITED WITH OUR
ALLIES. OF THESE STEPS WILL HELP
BLUNT GAS PRICES HERE AT HOME.
BUT I KNOW NEWS ABOUT WHAT IS
HAPPENING CAN SEEM ALARMING TO
ALL AMERICANS. WHAT I WANT YOU
TO KNOW, WE ARE GOING TO BE
OKAY. WE ARE GOING TO BE OKAY.
THE HISTORY OF THIS AREA IS
WRITTEN, PUTIN'S UKRAINE WILL
HAVE LEFT -- WEAKER AND THE REST
OF THE WORLD STRONGER. WHILE IT
SHOULD --. WHILE
IT SHOULD, SHOULDN'T HAVE TAKEN
SOMETHING SO TERRIBLE FOR
AROUND THE WORLD TO SEE WHAT IS
AT STAKE, NOW EVERYONE SEES IT
CLEARLY. WE SEE THE UNITY AMONG
LEADERS OF NATIONS. A MORE
UNIFIED EUROPE. A MORE UNIFIED
WEST. WE SEE UNITY AMONG THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE GATHERING IN
CITIES AND LARGE CROWDS AROUND
THE WORLD. EVEN IN RUSSIA, TO
DEMONSTRATE THE SUPPORT FOR THE
PEOPLE OF UKRAINE. IN THE BATTLE
BETWEEN DEMOCRACY AND
AUTOCRACIES, DEMOCRACIES ARE
RISING TO THE MOMENT. AND OF THE
WORLD IS CLEARLY CHOOSING THE
SIDE OF PEACE AND SECURITY. THIS
IS A REAL TEST. AND IT IS GOING
TO TAKE TIME. SO, LET US
CONTINUE TO DRAW INSPIRATION
FROM THE IRON WILL OF THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE. TWO OUR FELLOW
UKRAINIAN AMERICANS, WHO FORGED
A DEEP BOND THAT CONNECTS OUR
TWO NATIONS. WE STAND WITH YOU.
WE STAND WITH YOU. PUTIN MAY
CIRCLE KYIV WITH TANKS. BUT HE
WILL NEVER GAIN THE HEARTS AND
SOULS OF THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE.
HE WILL NEVER EXTINGUISH THE
LOVE OF FREEDOM. AND HE WILL
NEVER, NEVER WEAKEN THE RESOLVE
OF THE
FREE WORLD.
&gt;&gt; WE MEET TONIGHT IN AN AMERICA
THAT HAS LIVED THROUGH TWO OF
THE HARDEST YEARS THIS NATION
HAS EVER FACED. THE PANDEMIC HAS
BEEN PUNISHING. AND, SO MANY
FAMILIES ARE LIVING PAYCHECK TO
PAYCHECK, STRUGGLING TO KEEP UP
WITH THE RISING COST OF FOOD,
GAS, HOUSING, AND SO MUCH MORE.
I UNDERSTAND, LIKE MANY OF YOU
DID, MY DAD HAD TO LEAVE HIS
HOME IN SCRANTON, PENNSYLVANIA,
TO FIND WORK SO, LIKE MANY OF
YOU, I GREW UP WITH THE FAMILY
FOR THE PRICE OF FOOD WENT UP,
IT WAS FELT THROUGHOUT THE
FAMILY. IT HAD AN IMPACT. THAT
IS ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS I DID
AS PRESIDENT WAS FIGHT THE PAST,
TO PASS THE AMERICAN RESCUE
FUND. BECAUSE PEOPLE WERE
HURTING. WE NEEDED TO ASK, TO
ASK, AND WE DID. TWO PIECES OF
LEGISLATION HAVE DONE MORE IN
THE CRITICAL MOMENT IN HISTORY
TO LIFT US OUT OF THE CRISIS.
FUELED OUR EFFORTS TO VACCINATE
THE NATION AND COME BACK
COVID-19. DELIVER IMMEDIATE
ECONOMIC RELEASE TO TENS OF
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS. TO HELP
PUT FOOD ON THE TABLE. REMEMBER
THOSE LONG LINES OF CARS WAITING
FOR HOURS JUST TO GET A BOX OF
FOOD PUT IN THE TRUNK. IT CUT
THE COST OF HEALTHCARE
INSURANCE. AND AS MY DAD USED TO
SAY, IT GAVE THE PEOPLE JUST A
LITTLE BIT OF BREATHING ROOM.
UNLIKE THE $2 TRILLION TAX CUT
PASSED IN THE PREVIOUS
ADMINISTRATION, THAT BENEFITED
THE TOP 1% OF AMERICANS, THE
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN -- THE
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN HELPED
WORKING PEOPLE AND LEFT NO ONE
BEHIND. FOLKS. AND IT WORKED.
IT WORKS.
IT WORKS. IT CREATED JOBS, LOTS
OF JOBS. IN FACT, OUR ECONOMY
CREATED 6.5 MILLION NEW JOBS
JUST LAST YEAR. MORE JOBS IN
ONE YEAR THAN EVER BEFORE IN THE
HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES
AMERICA. THE ECONOMY GREW AT A
RATE OF 5.7 LAST YEAR. THE
STRONGEST GROWTH RATE IN 40
YEARS. AND THE FIRST UP IN
BRINGING FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE TO
OUR ECONOMY THAT HASN'T WORKED
FOR WORKING PEOPLE IN THIS
NATION FOR TOO LONG. FOR THE
PAST 40 YEARS, WE WERE TOLD THE
TAX RATE FOR THOSE AT THE TOP
AND BENEFITS WOULD TRICKLE DOWN
AND EVERYONE WOULD BENEFIT. BUT
THE TRICKLE-DOWN THEORY LED TO A
WEAKER ECONOMIC GROWTH, LOWER
WAGES, BIGGER DEFICITS AND A
WIDENING GAP BETWEEN THE TOP AND
EVERYONE ELSE IN NEARLY A
CENTURY.
HARRIS AND I RAN FOR OFFICE AND
I REALIZED WE HAD A FUNDAMENTAL
DISAGREEMENT ON THIS. BUT RAN
FOR OFFICE WITH THE NEW ECONOMIC
VISION FOR AMERICA. INVEST IN
AMERICA. EDUCATE AMERICANS. GROW
THE WORKFORCE. BUILD THE ECONOMY
FROM THE BOTTOM UP IN THE MIDDLE
OUT, NOT FROM THE TOP DOWN.
BECAUSE, WE KNOW, BECAUSE WE
KNOW-.
&gt;&gt; BECAUSE WE KNOW, WHEN THE
MIDDLE CLASS GROWS, WITH THE
MIDDLE CLASS GROWS, THE POOR GO
WAY UP IN THE WILL TO DO VERY
WELL. AMERICA USED TO HAVE THE
BEST ROADS, BRIDGES AND AIRPORTS
ON EARTH. AND NOW, OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE IS RANKED 13th IN
THE WORLD. WE WON'T BE ABLE TO
COMPETE FOR THE JOBS IN THE 21st
CENTURY IF WE DON'T EXIT. THAT
IS WHAT I, WHAT WAS SO
IMPORTANT, TO PASS THE
BIPARTISAN INFRASTRUCTURE LAW.
AND I THANKED MY REPUBLICAN
FRIENDS WHO JOINED, TO INVEST
AND
REBUILD AMERICA. THE SINGLE
BIGGEST INVESTMENT
IN HISTORY. WAS A BIPARTISAN
EFFORT. I WANT TO THANK THE
MEMBERS OF BOTH PARTIES WHO
WORKED TO MAKE IT HAPPEN. WE ARE
DONE TALKING ABOUT
INFRASTRUCTURE IN WEEKS. WE ARE
NOW TALKING ABOUT AN
INFRASTRUCTURE DECADE.
IT IS
GOING TO TRANSFORM AMERICA. TO
PUT US ON THE PATH TO WIN THE
ECONOMIC COMPETITION OF THE 21st
CENTURY. AND WE FACE THE REST OF
THE WORLD, PARTICULARLY CHINA. I
HAVE TOLD XI XINGPING, IT HAS
NEVER BEEN A GOOD BET TO BET
AGAINST THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. WE
WILL CREATE GOOD JOBS FOR
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS,
MODERNIZING ROADS, AIRPORTS,
PORTS, WATERWAYS, ALL ACROSS
AMERICA. AND WE WILL DO IT TO
WITHSTAND THE DEFECATING,
DEVASTATING IMPACTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE AND PROMOTE A JUSTICE. WE
WILL BUILD A NATIONAL NETWORK OF
500,000 ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING STATIONS. BEGIN TO
REPLACE THE POISONOUS LEAD
PIPES, SO EVERY CHILD, EVERY
AMERICAN HAS CLEAN WATER TO
DRINK, AT HOME AND AT SCHOOL. WE
ARE GOING TO PROVIDE,
AFFORDABLE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET
FOR EVERY AMERICAN. RURAL,
SUBURBAN, URBAN AND TRIBAL
COMMUNITIES. 4000 PROJECTS HAVE
ALREADY BEEN ANNOUNCED. MANY OF
YOU HAVE ANNOUNCE THE
DISTRICTS. TONIGHT, I AM
ANNOUNCING THAT THIS YEAR, WE
WILL START FIXING OVER 65,000
MILES OF HIGHWAY AND 1500
BRIDGES IN DISREPAIR.
AND FOLKS,-.
&gt;&gt; WHEN WE USE TAX PAYERS
DOLLARS TO REBUILD AMERICA, WE
ARE GOING TO DO IT BY BUYING
AMERICAN. BUY AMERICAN PRODUCTS.
SUPPORT
AMERICAN JOBS. THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT SPENDS ABOUT $600
BILLION A YEAR TO KEEP THIS
COUNTRY SAFE
AND SECURE. HAS BEEN A LAW ON
TO MAKE SURE TAXPAYERS DOLLARS
SUPPORT AMERICAN JOBS AND
BUSINESSES. EVERY
ADMINISTRATION, DEMOCRAT AND
REPUBLICAN, SAYS THEY WILL DO
IT. BUT WE ARE ACTUALLY DOING
IT. WE WILL BY AMERICA, TO MAKE
SURE EVERYTHING, FROM THE DECK
OF AN AIRCRAFT CARRIER, TO THE
STEEL ON HIGHWAY GUARDRAILS, IS
MADE IN AMERICA FROM BEGINNING
TO END. ALL OF IT. ALL OF IT.
BUT, FOLKS.
TO COMPETE FOR THE JOBS OF THE
FUTURE, WE ALSO NEED TO LEVEL
THE PLAYING FIELD WITH CHINA AND
OTHER COMPETITORS TOOK A THAT IS
WHY IT IS SO IMPORTANT TO PASS
THE -- INNOVATION ACT SITTING IN
CONGRESS IT WILL MAKE RECORD
INVESTMENTS IN EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES AND AMERICAN
MANUFACTURING. USED TO INVEST
ALMOST 2% OF THE GDP IN RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT. WE DON'T NOW.
CHINA IS. LET ME GIVE YOU AN
EXAMPLE WHY IT IS SO IMPORTANT
TO PASS. IF YOU TRAVEL 20 MILES
EAST OF COLUMBUS, OHIO, YOU WILL
FIND 1000 EMPTY ACRES OF LAND.
IT WON'T LOOK LIKE MUCH. BUT IF
YOU STOP AND LOOK CLOSELY, YOU
WILL SEE A FIELD OF DREAMS. THE
GROUND IN WHICH AMERICA'S FUTURE
WILL BE BILLED. THAT IS WHERE
INTEL, THE AMERICAN COMPANY THAT
HELPED BUILD SILICON VALLEY, IS
GOING TO BUILD A $20 BILLION
SEMICONDUCTOR MEGA SITE. UP TO
EIGHT STATE-OF-THE-ART FACTORIES
IN ONE PLACE. 10,000
NEW JOBS. THOSE FACTORIES, THE
AVERAGE JOB, ABOUT 135 THOUGHT
DOLLARS. $135,000 A YEAR. THE
MOST SOPHISTICATED MANUFACTURING
IN THE WORLD. TO MAKE COMPUTER
CHIPS THE SIZE OF A FINGERTIP.
THAT POWER THE WORLD IN EVERYDAY
LIVES. FROM
SMART PHONES, TECHNOLOGIES AND
THE INTERNET. TECHNOLOGIES YET
TO BE INVENTED. BUT THAT IS JUST
THE BEGINNING. INTEL CEO, PAT
GELSINGER, WHO WAS HERE TONIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE PAT IS. PAT,
THERE YOU ARE. PAT,
STAND UP.
PAT.
PAT CAME TO SEE ME AND HE TOLD
ME, THEY ARE READY TO INCREASE
THEIR INVESTMENT FROM $20
BILLION TO $100 BILLION. THAT
WOULD BE THE BIGGEST INVESTMENT
AND MANUFACTURING IN AMERICAN
HISTORY. AND ALL THEY ARE
WAITING FOR IS FOR YOU TO PASS
THIS BILL TOOK A SO, LET'S NOT
WAIT ANY LONGER. SEND IT TO MY
DESK. I WILL SIGN IT. AND WE
WILL REALLY TAKE OFF IN A BIG
WAY. AND, FOLKS. INTEL IS NOT
ALONE.
HAPPENING IN AMERICA. JUST LOOK
AROUND AND YOU WILL SEE AN
AMAZING STORY OF THE
REBIRTH OF PRIDE THAT COMES FROM
STAMPING PRODUCTS, MADE IN
AMERICA. THE REVITALIZATION OF
AMERICAN MANUFACTURING.
COMPANIES ARE CHOOSING TO BUILD
A NEW FACTORIES HERE. WHEN JUST
A FEW YEARS AGO, THEY WOULD HAVE
GONE OVERSEAS. THAT IS WHAT IS
HAPPENING. FORD IS INVESTING $11
BILLION IN ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
CREATING 11,000 JOBS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY. GM IS MAKING THE
LARGEST INVESTMENT IN ITS
HISTORY. $7 BILLION TO BUILD
ELECTRIC VEHICLES, CREATING 4000
JOBS IN MICHIGAN. ALL TOLD,
369,000 NEW MANUFACTURING JOBS
CREATED IN AMERICA LAST YEAR
ALONE. FOLKS.
-.
&gt;&gt; POWERED BY PEOPLE I MET LIKE
JOJO BURGESS FROM GENERATIONS OF
UNION STEELWORKERS IN
PITTSBURGH, WHO IS HERE WITH US
TONIGHT. WHERE ARE YOU, JOJO?
THERE YOU ARE. THANKS, BUDDY. AS
OHIO, AS OHIO SENATOR SHARON
BROWN SAYS,-.
&gt;&gt; AS
SHARON BROWN SAYS, IT IS TIME TO
BURY THE LABEL, RUST BELT. IT IS
TIME TO SEE WHAT USED TO BE
CALLED THE RUST
BELT, BECOME THE HOME OF
SIGNIFICANT RESURGENCE OF
MANUFACTURING. AND WITH ALL THE
BRIGHT SPOTS IN
OUR ECONOMY, RECORD JOB GROWTH,
HIGHER WAGES, TOO MANY FAMILIES
ARE STRUGGLING TO KEEP UP WITH
THE BILLS. INFLATION IS ROBBING
THEM OF GAINS THEY THOUGHT
OTHERWISE THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO
FEEL. I GET IT. THAT IS WHY MY
TOP PRIORITY IS GETTING PRICES
UNDER CONTROL TOOK A LOOK. OUR
ECONOMY ROARED BACK FASTER THAN
ALMOST ANYONE PREDICTED. BUT THE
PANDEMIC THAT -- THE BUSINESSES
HAD HARD TIME HIRING A PEOPLE
BECAUSE OF THE PANDEMIC TO KEEP
UP PRODUCTION IN THE FACTORIES.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE PEOPLE MAKING
THOSE BEAMS THAT WENT INTO
BUILDINGS BECAUSE THEY WERE OUT,
THE FACTORY WAS CLOSED. THE
PANIC ALSO DISRUPTED THE GLOBAL
SUPPLY CHAIN. FACTORIES CLOSED.
WHEN THAT HAPPENS, IT TAKES
LONGER TO MAKE GOODS AND GET
THEM TO THE WAREHOUSES, TO THE
STORES AND PRICES GO UP. LOOK AT
CARS LAST YEAR. ONE THIRD OF ALL
THE INFLATION WAS BECAUSE OF
AUTOMOBILE SALES. THERE WEREN'T
ENOUGH SEMICONDUCTORS TO MAKE
ALL THE CARS THAT PEOPLE WANTED
TO BUY. AND GUESS WHAT? PRICES
OF AUTOMOBILES WENT WAY UP.
ESPECIALLY USED VEHICLES AS
WELL. SO, WE HAVE A CHOICE. ONE
WAY TO FIGHT INFLATION IS TO
DRIVE DOWN WAGES AND MAKE
AMERICANS POORER. I THINK I HAVE
A BETTER IDEA TO FIGHT
INFLATION. LOWER YOUR COSTS, NOT
YOUR
WAGES. FOLKS.
THAT MEANS, MAKE MORE CARS WITH
SEMICONDUCTORS IN AMERICA. MORE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND INNOVATION IN
AMERICA TOOK A MORE GOODS,
MOVING FASTER AND CHEAPER IN
AMERICA.
MORE JOBS WHERE YOU CAN EARN A
GOOD LIVING IN AMERICA. INSTEAD
OF RELYING ON FOREIGN SUPPLY
CHAINS, LET'S MAKE IT IN
AMERICA.
LOOK. ECONOMISTS-.
&gt;&gt; ECONOMISTS CALL THIS
INCREASING THE PRODUCTIVE
CAPACITY OF OUR ECONOMY. I CALL
IT BUILDING A
BETTER AMERICA. MY PLAN TO
FIGHT INFLATION WILL LOWER YOUR
COST AND LOWER THE DEFICIT. 17
NOBEL LAUREATES IN ECONOMICS
SAID MY PLAN WOULD EASE
LONG-TERM INFLATIONARY
PRESSURES. TOP BUSINESS LEADERS,
AND I BELIEVE MOST AMERICANS
SUPPORT THE PLANT. HERE IS THE
PLAN. FIRST, CUT THE COST OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS. WE PAY MORE
FOR THE SAME DRUG PRODUCED BY
THE
SAME COMPANY IN AMERICA THAN ANY
OTHER COUNTRY IN THE WORLD. JUST
LOOK AT INSULIN. 1 IN 10
AMERICAN HAS DIABETES. IN
VIRGINIA I MET A 13-YEAR-OLD
BOY, THE HANDSOME YOUNG MAN
STANDING UP THERE.
JOSHUA DAVIS. HE AND HIS DAD
BOTH HAVE TYPE I DIABETES. WHICH
MEANS, THEY NEED INSULIN EVERY
SINGLE DAY. INSULIN COSTS ABOUT
$10 A VIAL TO MAKE. THAT IS WHAT
IT COSTS THE PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANY. BUT, DRUG COMPANIES
CHARGE FAMILIES LIKE JOSHUA AND
HIS DAD UP TO 30 TIMES THAT
AMOUNT. I SPOKE WITH JOSHUA'S
MOM. IMAGINE WHAT IT IS LIKE TO
LOOK AT YOUR CHILD, WHO NEEDS
INSULIN TO STAY HEALTHY. AND
HAVE NO IDEA HOW IN GODS NAME
YOU ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO PAY
FOR IT. WHAT IT DOES TO YOUR
FAMILY. BUT WHAT IT DOES TO YOUR
DIGNITY. YOUR ABILITY TO LOOK
YOUR CHILD IN THE EYE. TO BE THE
PARENT YOU EXPECT YOURSELF TO
BE. I REALLY MEAN IT. THINK
ABOUT THAT. THAT IS WHAT I THINK
ABOUT. YOU KNOW, YESTERDAY,
JOSHUA WAS HERE TONIGHT BUT
YESTERDAY WAS HIS BIRTHDAY.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BUDDY, BY THE
WAY. FOUR JOSHUA, AND 200,000
OTHER YOUNG
DIABETES, LET'S COUNT THE COST
OF INSULIN AT $35 A MONTH. SO
EVERYONE CAN
AFFORD IT. AND THE DRUG
COMPANIES WILL DO VERY, VERY
WELL. THE
PROFIT MARGIN. WHILE WE ARE AT
IT, I KNOW WE HAVE GREAT
DISAGREEMENTS ON THIS FLOOR WITH
THIS, LET'S LET MEDICARE
NEGOTIATE THE PRICE OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
THEY ALREADY SET THE PRICE FOR
VA DRUGS. LOOK. THE AMERICAN
RESCUE PLAN IS HELPING MILLIONS
OF FAMILIES IN A RECORDABLE,
AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT AS TO SAVE THEM $2400 A
YEAR ON THE HEALTH AGREEMENTS.
LET'S CLOSE THE COVERAGE GAP AND
MAKE THESE SAVINGS PERMANENT.
SECOND. LET'S CUT ENERGY COSTS
FOR FAMILIES. AN AVERAGE OF $500
A YEAR BY COMBATING CLIMATE
CHANGE. LET'S PROVIDE AN
INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT TO
WEATHERIZE YOUR HOME AND YOUR
BUSINESS. TO BE
ENERGY-EFFICIENT, AND GET A
TAX CREDIT FOR IT. DOUBLE
AMERICA'S CLEAN ENERGY
PRODUCTION AND SOLAR, WIND, AND
SO MUCH MORE. LOWER THE PRICE OF
ELECTRIC VEHICLES, SAVING
ANOTHER $80 A MONTH THAT YOU ARE
NOT GOING TO HAVE TO PAY AT THE
PUMP. FOLKS. THIRD. THE THIRD
THING WE CAN DO TO CHANGE THE
STANDARD OF LIVING FOR
HARD-WORKING FOLKS IS CUT THE
COST OF CHILDCARE. THE COST OF
CHILDCARE. FOLKS. IF YOU LIVE IN
A MAJOR CITY IN AMERICA,
PAY UP TO $14,000 PER YEAR FOR
CHILD CARE PER CHILD. I WAS A
SINGLE DAD FOR 5 YEARS RAISING
IT TO RAISING TWO KIDS. I HAD A
LOT OF HELP. HAD A MOM AND DAD,
A BROTHER AND A SISTER, THAT
REALLY HELPED. THE MIDDLE CLASS
AND WORKING FOLKS SHOULDN'T HAVE
TO PAY MORE THAN 7% OF THE
INCOME TO CARE FOR THE YOUNG
CHILDREN. MY PLAN, MY PLAN WOULD
CUT THE COST OF CHILDCARE IN
HALF FOR MOST FAMILIES.
AND HELP PARENTS, INCLUDING
MILLIONS OF WOMEN WHO LEFT THE
WORKFORCE DURING THE PANDEMIC
BECAUSE THEY COULDN'T AFFORD
CHILDCARE. TO BE ABLE TO GET
BACK TO WORK, GENERATING
ECONOMIC GROWTH. MY PLAN DOESN'T
STOP THERE. IT ALSO INCLUDES
HOME AND LONG-TERM-CARE. MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING. PRE-K FOR 3
AND 4-YEAR-OLDS. ALL THESE WILL
LOWER THE COST FOR FAMILIES.
UNDER MY PLAN, NOBODY, LET ME
SAY THIS AGAIN,
NOBODY EARNING LESS THAN
$400,000 A YEAR WILL PAY AN
ADDITIONAL PENNY AND NEW TAXES.
NOT A SINGLE PENNY. I MAY
BE WRONG, BUT MY GUESS IS, IF WE
TOOK A SECRET BALLOT ON THIS
FLOOR, THAT WE WOULD ALL AGREE
THAT THE PRESENT TAX SYSTEM
AIN'T FAIR. WE HAVE TO FIX IT.
I'M NOT LOOKING TO PUNISH
ANYBODY. BUT LET'S MAKE
CORPORATIONS AND WEALTHY
AMERICANS START PAYING THEIR
FAIR SHARE. LOOK. LAST YEAR,
LAST YEAR, LIKE CHRIS AND  TOM
CARPER, AND MY DISTINGUISH
CONGRESSWOMEN, WE COME FROM THE
LAND OF CORPORATE AMERICA.
INCORPORATION AMERICA THAN ANY
OTHER STATE IN AMERICA COMBINED.
AND
I STILL WON 36 YEARS IN A ROW.
THE POINT IS, EVEN
UNDERSTAND, YOU SHOULD PAY JUST
YOUR FAIR SHARE. LAST YEAR, 55
OF THE FORTUNE 500 COMPANIES
EARNED $40 BILLION IN PROFIT.
AND PAID ZERO IN
FEDERAL TAXES. NOW, LOOK. IT IS
NOT FAIR. THAT IS WHY I PROPOSE
THE 50% MINIMUM TAX RATES FOR
CORPORATIONS. WE HAVE GOT --
THAT IS WHY IN THE G7 AND OTHER
PUT TOGETHER, I WAS ABLE TO BE
SOMEWHAT HOPEFUL, 130 COUNTRIES
AGREE ON A GLOBAL TAX RATE
SO COMPANIES CAN'T GET OUT OF
PAYING THE TAXES AT HOME BY
SHIPPING JOBS IN FACTORIES
OVERSEAS. IT WILL RAISE BILLIONS
OF DOLLARS. THAT IS WHY I
PROPOSE CLOSING LOOPHOLES FOR
THE VERY WEALTHY WHO DON'T PAY,
WHO PAY A LOWER TAX RATE THAN A
TEACHER AND A FIREFIGHTER. SO,
THAT IS MY PLAN. BUT WE HAVE TO
GO INTO MORE DETAIL LATER. I AM
GOING TO, WE WILL GROW THE
ECONOMY. LOWER THE COST TO
FAMILIES. SO, WHAT ARE WE
WAITING FOR? LET'S GET THIS
DONE. WE ALL KNOW WE HAVE GOT TO
MAKE CHANGES. FOLKS.-.
&gt;&gt; WHILE YOU ARE
MY NOMINEES FOR THE FEDERAL
RESERVE. WHICH PLAYS A CRITICAL
ROLE IN FIGHTING INFLATION. MY
PLAN WILL NOT ONLY LOWER THE
COST AND GIVE FAMILIES A FAIR
SHOT, IT WILL LOWER THE DEFICIT.
THE PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATION NOT
ONLY BALLOONED THE DEFECATES
WITH HER TAX CUTS FOR WEALTHY
CORPORATIONS, IT UNDERMINED THE
WATCHDOGS, THE JOB
OF THOSE KEEPING PANDEMIC RELIEF
FUNDS FROM BEING WASTED.
REMEMBER WE HAVE THOSE DEBATES
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT THOSE
WATCHDOGS SHOULD BE ABLE TO SEE
EVERY DAY HOW MUCH MONEY WAS
BEING SPENT AND WAS GOING TO THE
RIGHT PLACE? UNDER MY
ADMINISTRATION, THE WATCHDOGS
ARE BACK. AND WE ARE GOING TO GO
AFTER THE CRIMINALS WHO STOLE
BILLIONS OF RELIEF MONEY MAN FOR
SMALL BUSINESSES AND MILLIONS OF
AMERICAN. TONIGHT I'M ANNOUNCING
THAT THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WILL
SOON NAME A CHIEF PROSECUTOR FOR
PANDEMIC
FRAUD. LOOK. I THINK WE ALL
AGREE,
THANK YOU. BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR, THE DEFICIT WILL BE DOWN
TO LESS THAN HALF OF WHAT IT WAS
BEFORE HE TOOK OFFICE. THE ONLY
PRESIDENT EVER TO CUT THE
DEFICIT BY MORE THAN $1 TRILLION
IN A SINGLE YEAR. LOWERING YOUR
COST ALSO MEANT DEMANDING MORE
COMPETITION. I AM A CAPITALIST.
BUT CAPITALISM WITHOUT
COMPETITION IS NOT CAPITALISM.
CAPITALISM WITHOUT COMPETITION
IS EXPLOITATION. DRIES
UP PROFITS. AND CORPORATIONS
HAVE
TO COMPETE, THEIR PROFITS GO UP
IN YOUR PRICES GO UP WHEN THEY
DON'T HAVE TO COMPETE. SMALL
BUSINESSES AND FAMILY FARMERS
AND RANCHERS, I NEED NOT TELL
SOME OF MY OF REPUBLICAN FRIENDS
IN MOST STATES, GUESS WHAT? YOU
HAVE GOT 4 BASIC MEATPACKING
FACILITIES. THAT IS IT. YOU PLAY
WITH THEM OR YOU DON'T GET TO
PLAY AT ALL. AND, YOU PAY A OF A
LOT MORE. A OF A LOT MORE.
BECAUSE, THERE ARE ONLY  FOUR.
SEE WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH OCEAN
CARRIERS. MOVING GOODS IN AND
OUT OF AMERICA. DURING THE
PANDEMIC, ABOUT HALF A DOZEN OR
LESS FOREIGN OWNED COMPANIES
RAISE PRICES BY AS MUCH AS 1000%
AND MADE RECORD PROFITS.
TONIGHT, I AM -- CRACKDOWN ON
COMPANIES OVERCHARGING AMERICAN
BUSINESSES AND
CONSUMERS. FOLKS.
AS WALL STREET FIRMS TAKE OVER
MORE NURSING HOMES, QUALITY IN
THOSE HOMES HAS GONE DOWN. AND
COSTS HAVE GONE UP. THAT ENDS ON
MY WATCH. MEDICARE IS GOING TO
SET HIGHER STANDARDS FOR NURSING
HOMES, AND MAKE SURE LOVED ONES
GET THE CARE THEY DESERVE AND
THAT THEY INSPECT AND THEY ARE
LOOKED AT CLOSELY. WE ARE ALSO
GOING TO CUT COSTS TO KEEP THE
ECONOMY GOING STRONG AND GIVING
WORKERS A FAIR SHOT. PROVIDE
MORE TRAINING AND
APPRENTICESHIPS, HIRE THEM BASED
ON SKILLS, NOT JUST THEIR
DEGREES. LET'S PASS THE PAYCHECK
FAIRNESS ACT. RAISE THE MINIMUM
WAGE TO $15 PER HOUR. AND EXTEND
THE CHILD TAX CREDIT SO NO ONE
HAS TO RAISE A FAMILY IN
POVERTY. -- PROGRAMS TO INCREASE
OUR HISTORIC SUPPORT FOR HBCUS.
AND INVEST IN WHAT JILL, OUR
FIRST LADY WHO TEACHES
FULL-TIME, CALLS AMERICA'S
BEST-KEPT SECRET. COMMUNITY
COLLEGES. LOOK.
LET'S PAST THE PRO-ACT. WHEN A
MAJORITY OF WORKERS WANT TO FORM
A UNION, THEY SHOULD NOT BE ABLE
TO BE
OUR WORKERS AND WE BUILD AN
ECONOMY FROM THE BOTTOM UP IN
THE MIDDLE OUT, TOGETHER, WE CAN
DO SOMETHING WE HAVE NOT DONE IN
A LONG TIME. BUILD A BETTER
AMERICA. FOR MORE THAN TWO
YEARS, COVEN HAS IMPACTED EVERY
DECISION IN OUR LIVES. AND THE
LIFE OF THIS NATION. AND I KNOW
YOU ARE TIRED. FRUSTRATED. AND
EXHAUSTED. OBJECT THAT DOESN'T
EVEN COME CLOSE TO 1 MILLION
PEOPLE WHO CITIZENS ARE DYING --
AT THE KITCHEN TABLE LOOKING AT
AN EMPTY CHAIR. BECAUSE THEY
LOST SOMEBODY. BUT I ALSO KNOW
THIS. BECAUSE OF THE PROGRESS WE
HAVE MADE, BECAUSE OF YOUR
RESILIENCE, AND THE TOOLS THAT
WE HAVE BEEN PROVIDED BY THIS
CONGRESS, TONIGHT, I CAN SAY WE
ARE MOVING FORWARD SAFELY,
BACK TO A MORE NORMAL ROUTINE.
WE HAVE REACHED A NEW MOMENT IN
THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19.
WHERE SEVERE CASES ARE DOWN A
LEVEL NOT SEEN SINCE JULY OF
LAST YEAR. JUST A FEW DAYS AGO,
THE CENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION ISSUED A NEW MASK
GUIDELINES. UNDER THE NEW
GUIDELINES, MOST AMERICANS AND
MOST OF THE COUNTRY CAN NOW GO
MASK FREE. AND BASED ON
PROJECTIONS, BASED
ON PROJECTIONS, MORE OF THE
COUNTRY WILL REACH A POINT
ACROSS THAT POINT ACROSS THE
NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS. AND THANKS
TO THE PROGRESS WE MADE IN THE
PAST YEAR, COVID-19 NO LONGER
NEED CONTROL OUR LIVES. I KNOW
SOME ARE TALKING ABOUT LIVING
WITH COVID-19. BUT TONIGHT, I
SAY, THAT WE NEVER JUST EXCEPT
LIVING WITH COVID-19. WE WILL
CONTINUE TO COMBAT THE VIRUS AS
WE DO OTHER DISEASES. AND
BECAUSE THIS VIRUS MUTATES AND
SPREADS, WE HAVE TO STAY ON
GUARD. FOR COMMONSENSE STEPS AS
WE MOVE FORWARD SAFELY, IN MY
VIEW. FIRST. STAY PROTECTED WITH
VACCINES AND TREATMENTS. WE KNOW
HOW INCREDIBLY AFFECT OF
VACCINES ARE. IF YOU ARE
VACCINATED AND BOOSTED, YOU HAVE
THE HIGHEST DEGREE
OF PROTECTION.
WE WILL NEVER GIVE UP ON
VACCINATING MORE AMERICANS. NOW,
I KNOW PARENTS WITH KIDS UNDER 5
ARE EAGER TO SEE THE VACCINES
AUTHORIZED FOR THE CHILDREN.
SCIENTISTS ARE WORKING HARD TO
GET THAT DONE. I WILL BE READY
OF WITH PLENTY OF VACCINES IF
AND WHEN THEY DO. WE ARE
ALREADY, WE ARE ALSO READY WITH
ANTIVIRAL TREATMENTS. IF YOU GET
COVID-19, THE PFIZER POLL
REDUCES YOUR CHANCES OF ENDING
UP IN THE HOSPITAL BY 90%. I
HAVE ORDERED MORE PILLS THAN
ANYBODY IN THE WORLD HAVE.
PFIZER IS WORKING OVERTIME TO
GET US 1 MILLION PILLS A SMART.
AND MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT NEXT
MONTH. AND NOW, WE ARE LAUNCHING
THE TEST TO TREAT INITIATIVE. SO
PEOPLE CAN GET TESTED AT THE
PHARMACY IF THEY PROOF POSITIVE,
RECEIVE ANTIVIRAL PILLS ON THE
SPOT AT NO COST. AND, FOLKS.
IF YOU ARE IMMUNOCOMPROMISED, OR
HAVE SOME OTHER VULNERABILITY,
WE HAVE TREATMENTS AND FREE
HIGH-QUALITY MASKS. WE'RE
LEAVING THE ONE BEHIND HER
IGNORING ANYONE'S NEEDS AS WE
MOVE FORWARD. ON TESTING, WE
HAVE MADE HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF TESTS AVAILABLE AND YOU CAN
ORDER THEM FOR FREE TO YOUR
TRUSTED. WE HAVE ALREADY ORDERED
PRETESTS. IF YOU ALREADY ORDERED
PRETESTS TONIGHT, I AM
ANNOUNCING YOU CAN ORDER ANOTHER
GROUP OF TESTS, GO TO COVID
TEST.GOV STARTING NEXT WEEK AND
YOU CAN GET MORE TEST. SECOND.
WE MUST PREPARE FOR
NEW VARIANTS. OVER THE PAST, WE
HAVE GOTTEN MUCH BETTER AT
DETECTING NEW VARIANTS.
NECESSARY, WE WILL BE ABLE TO
DEVELOP NEW VACCINES WITHIN 100
DAYS INSTEAD OF MAYBE MONTHS OR
YEARS. AND IF CONGRESS PROVIDES
THE FUNDS WE NEED, WE WILL HAVE
NEW STOCK PILES OF TESTS, MASKS,
PILLS, READY IF NEEDED. I CANNOT
PROMISE A NEW VARIABLE COME. BUT
I CAN PROMISE YOU, WE WILL DO
EVERYTHING WITHIN OUR POWER TO
BE READY IF IT DOES. THIRD.
CAN AND THE SHUTDOWN OF SCHOOLS
AND BUSINESSES. WE HAVE THE
TOOLS WE NEED. IT IS TIME FOR
AMERICA TO GET BACK TO WORK IN
FILL OUR GREAT DOWNTOWNS WITH
PEOPLE. PEOPLE WORKING FROM HOME
CAN FEEL SAFE AND BEGIN TO
RETURN TO THEIR OFFICES. WE ARE
DOING THAT HERE IN THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT. THE VAST MAJORITY OF
FEDERAL WORKERS WILL ONCE AGAIN
WORK IN PERSON. OUR SCHOOLS ARE
OPEN. LET'S KEEP IT THAT WAY.
OUR KIDS NEED TO BE IN SCHOOL.
75% OF ADULT AMERICANS FULLY
VACCINATED, AND HOSPITALIZATIONS
DOWN
BY 77%, MOST AMERICANS CAN
REMOVE THEIR MASK AND STAY IN
THE CLASSROOM AND MOVE
FORWARD SAFELY. WE ACHIEVED THIS
BECAUSE WE PROVIDED FREE
VACCINES, TREATMENTS, TESTS AND
MASKS. COURSE, CONTINUING THIS
COSTS MONEY. SO, WILL NOT
SURPRISE YOU, I WILL BE BACK TO
SEE YOU ALL. GOOD AS SOON SENT A
REQUEST TO CONGRESS. THE VAST
MAJORITY OF AMERICANS HAVE USED
THESE TOOLS AND MAY AGAIN. WE
MAY NEED THEM AGAIN. SO, I
EXPECT CONGRESS, I HOPE YOU'LL
PASS IT QUICKLY. FOURTH. WILL
CONTINUE VACCINATING THE WORLD.
WE HAVE SENT 475 MILLION VACCINE
DOSES TO 112 COUNTRIES. MORE
THAN ANY NATION ON EARTH. WE
WON'T STOP. YOU CAN'T BUILD A
WALL HIGH ENOUGH TO KEEP OUT A
VACCINE, THE VACCINE CAN STOP
THE SPREAD OF
THESE DISEASES. YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE LOST SO MUCH IN COVID-19.
TIME WITH ONE ANOTHER. WORSE OF
ALL, THE LOSS OF LIFE TOOK A
LET'S USE THIS MOMENT TO RESET.
SO, STOP
PARTISAN DIVIDING LINE. SEE IT
FOR WHAT IT IS. A GOD-AWFUL
DISEASE. LET'S STOP SEEING EACH
OTHER AS ENEMIES. AND
SEEING EACH OTHER FOR HER WE
ARE. FELLOW
AMERICANS. LOOK.
THE WASHINGTON POST WE CAN
CHANGE HOW DIVIDED WE HAVE BEEN.
IT WAS A LONG TIME IN COMING.
BUT WE CAN CHANGE HOW TO MOVE
FORWARD. AND COVID-19 ANOTHER --
WE MUST FACE TOGETHER. I
RECENTLY VISITED NEW YORK CITY
POLICE DEPARTMENT DAYS AFTER THE
FUNERALS OF OFFICER WILBUR MORA
AND HIS PARTNER, OFFICER JASON
RIVERA. THEY WERE RESPONDING TO
A 911 CALL WHEN THE MAN SHOT AND
KILLED THEM WITH THE STOLEN GUN.
OFFICER MOORE WAS 27 YEARS OLD.
OFFICER RIVERA WAS 22 YEARS OLD.
BOTH DOMINICAN AMERICANS, WHO
GREW UP ON THE SAME STREETS THAT
THEY LATER CHOSE TO PATROL AS
POLICE OFFICERS. I SPOKE WITH
THEIR FAMILIES. AND I TOLD HIM
WE WERE FOREVER IN DEBT FOR THE
SACRIFICES. I WILL CARRY
MISSION TO RESTORE THE TRUST AND
SAFETY AND EVERY COMMUNITY
DESERVES. LIKE SOME OF YOU THAT
HAVE BEEN AROUND FOR A WHILE, I
HAVE WORKED WITH YOU ON THESE
ISSUES FOR A LONG TIME. I KNOW
WHAT WORKS. INVESTIGATING CRIME
PREVENTION AND COMMUNITY
POLICING. COPS WHO WALKED THE
BEAT WHO KNOW THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND WHO CAN RESTORE TRUST
AND SAFETY. LET'S NOT ABANDON
OUR STREETS OR CHOOSE BETWEEN
SAFETY AND EQUAL JUSTICE. LET'S
COME TOGETHER AND PROTECT OUR
COMMUNITIES, RESTORE TRUST, AND
HOLD LAW ENFORCEMENT
ACCOUNTABLE. THAT IS WHY THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAS REQUIRED
BODY CAMERAS, AND CHOKEHOLD'S
AND RESTRICTED NO NOT WARRANTS
FOR ITS OFFICERS. THAT'S WHY THE
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN THAT YOU
ALL PROVIDED
$350 BILLION. THE CITIES, STATES
AND COUNTIES CAN USE TO HIRE
MORE POLICE, INVESTED MORE
PROVEN STRATEGIES. PROVEN
STRATEGIES LIKE PROVEN
STRATEGIES LIKE COMMUNITY --
TRUSTED MESSENGERS, BREAKING THE
SINNER -- GIVING YOUNG PEOPLE
SOME HOPE. WE SHOULD ALL AGREE,
THE ANSWER IS NOT TO DEFUND THE
POLICE. IT IS TO FUND THE
POLICE. FUND THEM.
FUND THEM. FUND THEM WITH
RESOURCES AND -- RESOURCES AND
TRAINING THEY NEED TO PROTECT
OUR COMMUNITIES. I ASKED
DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS ALIKE TO PASS MY
BUDGET AND KEEP OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS SAFE. AND WE WILL
DO EVERYTHING IN MY POWER TO
CRACKDOWN ON GUN TRAFFICKING. OF
GHOST GUNS, THAT YOU CAN BUY
ONLINE. ASSEMBLE AT HOME. NO
SERIAL NUMBERS. CAN'T BE TRACED.
I ASKED CONGRESS TO PASS PROVEN
MEASURES TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE.
PASS UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND
CHECKS. WHY SHOULD ANYONE ON THE
TERRORIST LIST BE ABLE TO
PURCHASE A WEAPON? WHY? WHY?
AND, FOLKS. BAN ASSAULT WEAPONS
WITH HIGH-CAPACITY MAGAZINES UP
TO 100 ROUNDS. YOU THINK THE
DEER ARE WEARING KEVLAR
LOOK. REPEAL THE LIABILITY
SHIELD THAT MAKES GUN
MANUFACTURERS THE ONLY INDUSTRY
IN AMERICA THAT CAN'T BE SUED.
THE ONLY ONE. IMAGINE, HAD WE
DONE THAT WITH TOBACCO
MANUFACTURERS. THESE LAWS DON'T
INFRINGE ON THE SECOND
AMENDMENT, THEY SAVE LIVES. THE
MOST FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT IN
AMERICA IS THE RIGHT TO VOTE.
AND HAVE IT COUNTED. AND, LOOK.
IT IS UNDER ASSAULT. IN STATE
AFTER STATE, NEW LAWS HAVE
BEEN PASSED. NOT ONLY TO
SUPPRESS THE VOTE, WE HAVE BEEN
TO BEFORE. BUT TO SUBVERT THE
ENTIRE ELECTION. WE CAN'T LET
THIS HAPPEN. TONIGHT, I CALL ON
THE SENATE TO PASS, PASS THE
FREEDOM TO VOTE ACT. PASS THE
JOHN LEWIS ACT, VOTING RIGHTS
ACT. AND WHILE YOU ARE AT IT,
PASS THE HIGHTS ACT SO AMERICANS
KNOW WHO IS FUNDING OUR
ELECTIONS. LOOK. TONIGHT, I LIKE
TO HONOR SOMEONE WHO HAS
DEDICATED HIS LIFE TO SERVE THE
COUNTRY. JUSTICE BREYER. AN ARMY
VETERAN, CONSTITUTIONAL SCHOLAR,
RETIRING JUSTICE OF THE UNITED
STATES SUPREME COURT. JUSTICE
BREYER, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
SERVICE. THANK YOU, THANK YOU,
THANK YOU. I MEAN IT.
THANK YOU. WE
ALL KNOW, NO MATTER WHAT YOUR
IDEOLOGY, WE ALL
MOST SERIOUS CONSTITUTIONAL
RESPONSIBILITY A PRESIDENT HAS
IS NOMINATING SOMEONE TO SERVE
ON THE UNITED STATES SUPREME
COURT. AS I DID 4 DAYS AGO, I
HAVE NOMINATED THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS,  KETANJI BROWN
JACKSON.  ONE OF OUR NATION'S
TOP LEGAL MINDS. WILL CONTINUE
JUSTICE BREYER LEGACY
OF EXCELLENT. THE FORMER TOP
LITIGATOR IN PRIVATE PRACTICE. A
FORMER FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER.
FROM A FAMILY OF PUBLIC SCHOOL
EDUCATORS FROM A
FAMILY OF -- AND POLICE
OFFICERS, SHE IS A CONSENSUS
BUILDER. SINCE SHE HAS BEEN
NOMINATED, SHE HAS RECEIVED A
BROAD RANGE OF SUPPORT INCLUDING
THE FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE.
AND FORMER JUDGES SUPPORTED BY
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS.
FOLKS. IF WE ARE TO ADVANCE
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE, WE NEED TO
SECURE OUR BORDER AND FIX THE
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
YOU MIGHT'VE GUESSED, I THINK WE
CAN DO BOTH. AND OUR BORDER, WE
HAVE INSTALLED NEW TECHNOLOGIES
LIKE CUTTING-EDGE SCANNERS TO
BETTER DETECT DRUG SMILING. WE
SET UP JOINT PATROLS IN MEXICO
AND GUATEMALA TO TO CATCH HUMAN
TRAFFICKERS. WHERE PUTTING IN
PLACE DEDICATED IMMIGRATION
JUDGES AND SIGNIFICANT LARGER --
VIOLENCE COULD HAVE A CASE
ASSERTED FASTER. THOSE WHO
DON'T LEGITIMATELY ARE NOT HERE,
CAN GET SENT BACK. SCREENING,
SECURING COMMITMENTS AND --
SUPPORTING PARTNERS IN SOUTH AND
CENTRAL AMERICA TO HOUSE
REFUGEES AND SECURE THEIR OWN
BORDERS. WE CAN DO ALL THIS
WHILE KEEPING WITH THE TORCH OF
LIBERTY. WAS LED A GENERATION OF
IMMIGRANTS TO THIS LAND. MY
FORBEARERS AND MANY OF YOURS.
PROVIDE A PATHWAY TO CITIZENS
FOR DREAMERS. THOSE ARE
TEMPORARY STATUS, ESSENTIAL
WORKERS. REVISE OUR LAWS.
BUSINESS NETWORK GETS WORKERS
THEY NEED. FAMILIES DON'T WAIT
DECADES ARE --. IS NOT ONLY THE
RIGHT THING TO DO, IT IS THE
ECONOMICALLY SMART THING TO DO.
THAT'S WHY IMMIGRATION REFORM IS
SUPPORTED EVERYONE FROM LABOR
UNIONS TO RELIGIOUS LEADERS TO
THE U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.
LET'S GET IT DONE ONCE AND FOR
ALL. FOLKS.
ADVANCING LIBERTY AND JUSTICE
ALSO REQUIRES PROTECTING THE
RIGHTS OF WOMEN. THE
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT AFFIRMED BY
ROE V WADE, STANDING PRESIDENT
FOR HALF A CENTURY IS UNDER
ATTACK AS NEVER BEFORE. IF YOU
WANT TO GO FORWARD, NOT
BACKWARDS, WE MUST PROTECT
ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE. PRESERVE A
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO CHOOSE. AND
CONTINUE TO ADVANCE MATERNAL
HEALTH CARE FOR ALL AMERICANS.
AND, FOLKS. FOR OUR LGBT Q PLUS
AMERICANS, LET'S FINALLY GET THE
BIPARTISAN EQUALITY ACT TO MY
DESK. THE ONSLAUGHT OF STATE
LAWS TARGETING TRANSGENDER
AMERICANS AND THEIR FAMILIES IS
SIMPLY WRONG. SAID LAST YEAR,
ESPECIALLY TO OUR YOUNGER
TRANSGENDER AMERICANS, I WILL
ALWAYS HAVE YOUR BACK AS YOUR
PRESIDENT, SO THAT YOU COULD BE
YOURSELF AND REACH HER GOD-GIVEN
POTENTIAL. FOLKS. AS I HAVE JUST
DEMONSTRATED, IT
WE DO NOT AGREE. WE DO AGREE ON
A LOT MORE THINGS THAT WE
ACKNOWLEDGE. I SIGNED 80
BIPARTISAN ILLS OF THE LAW
LAST YEAR. FROM PREVENTING
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS, TO
PROTECTING ASIAN AMERICANS.
STILL TO COME IN HATE CRIMES. TO
REFORM MILITARY JUSTICE. WILL
SOON BE -- ACT THAT I
WROTE THREE DECADES AGO. IT IS
IMPORTANT. IT IS IMPORTANT FOR
US TO SHOW, TO SHOW
THE NATION,, WHEN WE COME
TOGETHER, WE CAN DO BIG THINGS.
TONIGHT, I AM OFFERING A UNITY
AGENDA FOR THE NATION. FOR BIG
THINGS WE CAN DO TOGETHER IN MY
VIEW. FIRST, B THE OPIOID
EPIDEMIC. THERE IS SO MUCH WE
CAN DO. INCREASED FUNDING FOR
PREVENTION,
&gt;&gt; TREATMENT, GET -- RID
REDUCTION OF OUTDATED AND ROLES
RECOVERY. THAT STOPPED GET
DOCTORSRID  OF OUTDATED RULES
FROM PRESCRIBINGAND  STOP
DOCTORS, TREATMENTSTHAT STOP
DOCTORS FROM PRESCRIBING . STOP
THE FLOW OF ILLICIT DRUGS BY
WORKING WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT TO GO AFTER THE
TRAFFICKERS.
KNOW THAT YOU ARE NOT ALONE.
I BELIEVE IN RECOVERY AND I
SUPPORT THE 23 MILLION AMERICANS
IN RECOVERY. SECOND,
LET'S TAKE A MENTAL HEALTH.
ESPECIALLY IN OUR CHILDREN WHO&amp;
LIVES IN EDUCATION UP AND TURNED
UPSIDE DOWN. PLEDGING MONEY TO
HELP TEACHERS MAKE UP FOR LOST
LEARNING. I URGE EVERY PARENT TO
MAKE SURE YOUR SCHOOL DOES JUST
THAT. THEY HAVE THE MONEY. WE
CAN ALL PLAY A PART. SIGN UP TO
BE A TUTOR OR MENTOR. CHILDREN
WERE ALSO STRUGGLING BEFORE THE
PANDEMIC. BULLYING, VIOLENCE,
TRAUMA, THE HARMS OF SOCIAL
MEDIA. AS FRANCIS HAUGEN WHO IS
HERE TONIGHT WITH US HAS SHOWN,
WE MUST HOLD SOCIAL MEDIA
PLATFORMS ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE
NATIONAL EXPERIMENT THEY ARE
CONDUCTING ON OUR CHILDREN FOR
PROFIT.
FOLKS, THANK YOU. THANK YOU FOR
THE COURAGE
TO STRENGTHEN PRIVACY
PROTECTIONS. DOWN TARGETED
ADVERTISING TO CHILDREN.
DEMAND THAT THEY STOP COLLECTING
PERSONAL DATA ON THEIR CHILDREN.
LET'S GET ALL AMERICANS THE
MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES THEY
NEED. MORE PEOPLE CAN TURN FOR
HELP
IN FULL PARITY BETWEEN PHYSICAL
AND MENTAL HEALTH CARE IF WE
TREAT IT THAT WAY IN OUR
INSURANCE. LOOK
, THE THIRD PIECE OF THAT AGENDA
IS SUPPORT OUR VETERANS
VETERANS ARE THE BACKBONE AND
THE SPINE OF THIS COUNTRY. THEY
ARE THE BEST OF US. I HAVE
ALWAYS BELIEVED THAT WE HAVE A
SACRED OBLIGATION
TO EQUIP THOSE THAT WE SENT TO
WARREN CARE FOR THEM AND THEIR
FAMILY WHEN THEY COME HOME. MY
ADMINISTRATION PROVIDED
ASSISTANCE IN JOB TRAINING,
HOUSING, AND HELPING LOWER
INCOME VETERANS GET VA CARE FOR
FREE. OUR TROOPS IN IRAQ FACED
MANY DANGERS. ONE BEING
STATIONED AT BASES AND BREATHING
IN TOXIC SMOKE FROM BURN PITS.
MANY OF YOU HAVE BEEN THERE.
I HAVE BEEN TO IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN OVER 40 TIMES. THE
BURN PITS THAT INCINERATE WASTE.
THE WASTE OF WAR, MEDICAL AND
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. JET FUEL AND
SO MUCH MORE AND THEY COME HOME.
THE WORLD'S FITTEST AND BEST
TRAINED WARRIORS NEVER THE SAME.
HEADACHES, NUMBNESS, DIZZINESS.
A CANCER THAT WOULD
PUT THEM IN A COFFIN. ONE OF
THOSE SOLDIERS WAS MY SON, MAJOR
BEAU BIDEN. I DON'T KNOW FOR
SURE IF THE BURN. THAT WHO LIVED
NEAR IN IRAQ AND EARLIER THAN
THAT IN KOSOVO IS THE CAUSE OF
HIS BRAIN CANCER BUT I AM
COMMITTED TO FIND
WE CAN. COMMITTED TO MILITARY
FAMILIES LIKE DANIEL ROBINSON
FROM OHIO
THE WIDOW OF SERGEANT FIRST
CLASS HEATH ROBINSON. HE WAS
BORN A SOLDIER. ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD. COMBAT MEDIC IN KOSOVO
AND IRAQ. STATIONS NEAR BAGHDAD
JUST YARDS FROM BURN PITS THE
SIZE OF FOOTBALL FIELDS.
DANIELLE IS HERE WITH US
TONIGHT. THEY LOVE GOING TO OHIO
STATE FOOTBALL GAMES.
BELOVED BUILDING LEGOS WITH
THEIR DAUGHTER. CANCER FROM
PROLONGED EXPOSURE TO BURN PITS
RAVAGED HIS LUNGS
DANIELLE SAID HE WAS A FIGHTER
TO THE VERY END. HE DID NOT KNOW
HOW TO STOP FIGHTING AND NEITHER
DID SHE. SHE FOUND PURPOSE TO
DEMAND THAT WE DO BETTER.
TONIGHT, DANIELLE, WE ARE GOING
TO DO BETTER. THE VA
IS FINDING NEW WAYS OF LINKING
TOXIC EXPOSURE TO DISEASE
ALREADY HELPING MORE VETERANS
GET BENEFIT
. TONIGHT I AM ANNOUNCING WE ARE
EXPANDING ELIGIBILITY TO
VETERANS SUFFERING FROM NINE
RESPIRATORY CANCERS. I'M ALSO
CALLING ON CONGRESS TO PASS A
LAW TO MAKE SURE VETERANS
DEVASTATED BY TOXIC EXPOSURE IN
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN FINALLY GET
THE BENEFIT.
FORCE, AND LAST, LET'S END
CANCER AS WE KNOW IT.
PERSONAL
.
THIS IS PERSONAL FOR ME AND JOE
AND
KAMALA HIM SO MANY OF YOU.
CANCER IS THE NUMBER TWO CAUSE
OF DEATH IN AMERICA, SECOND ONLY
HEART DISEASE. LAST MONTH I
ANNOUNCED A PLAN TO SUPERVISE
THE CANCER MOONSHOT.
TO CUT CANCER DEATH RATES BY AT
LEAST 50% OVER THE NEXT 25
YEARS. I THINK WE CAN DO BETTER
THAN THAT. TURNED CANCERS FROM
DEATH SENTENCES INTO TREATABLE
DISEASES. MORE SUPPORT FOR
PATIENTS AND THEIR FAMILIES. TO
GET THERE I CALL ON CONGRESS TO
FUND WHAT I CALL
ARPAH
ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECT AGENCY
FOR HEALTH. IT IS PATTERNED
AFTER THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
PRODUCTS THAT HAVE LED TO THE
INTERNET AND GPS AND SO MUCH
MORE THAT HAVE MADE OUR FORCES
SAFER AND ABLE TO WAGE WAR WITH
MORE CLARITY. ARPAH WILL HAVE A
SINGULAR PURPOSE  -- TO DRIVE
BREAKTHROUGHS IN CANCER,
ALZHEIMER'S, DIABETES,
AND MORE. A UNITY AGENDA FOR THE
NATION. WE CAN DO THESE THINGS.
IT IS WITHIN OUR POWER. I DON'T
SEE A PARTISAN EDGE TO ANY ONE
OF THOSE THINGS. MY FELLOW
AMERICANS, TONIGHT WE HAVE
GATHERED IN THIS SACRED SPACE,
THE CITADEL OF DEMOCRACY. IN
THIS
CAPITOL  GENERATIONS OF
AMERICANS HAVE MADE GREAT
DEBATES AND DONE GREAT THINGS.
WE HAVE FOUGHT FOR FREEDOM,
EXPANDED LIBERTY, DEBATED
TOTALITARIANISM AND TERROR.
WE'VE BUILT THE STRONGEST,
FREEST, AND MOST PROSPEROUS
NATION THE WORLD HAS EVER KNOWN.
NOW IS THE HOUR. OUR MOMENT OF
RESPONSIBILITY. OUR TEST OF
RESOLVE AND CONSCIENCE OF
HISTORY ITSELF. IT IS IN THIS
MOMENT THAT
THIS GENERATION IS FORMED. OUR
PURPOSE IS FOUND. OUR FUTURE IS
FORGED. WELL, I KNOW THIS
NATION. WE WILL MEET THE TEST.
PROTECT FREEDOM AND LIBERTY.
EXPAND FAIRNESS AND OPPORTUNITY.
WE WILL SAVE DEMOCRACY. AS HARD
AS THOSE TIMES HAVE BEEN, I'M
MORE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT AMERICA
TODAY THAN I HAVE BEEN IN MY
WHOLE LIFE. I SEE THE FUTURE
THAT IS IN OUR GRASS. I KNOW
THAT THERE IS SIMPLY NOTHING
BEYOND OUR CAPACITY. WE ARE THE
ONLY NATION ON EARTH THAT HAS
ALWAYS TURNED EVERY CRISIS WE
HAVE FACED INTO AN OPPORTUNITY.
THE ONLY NATION THAT COULD BE
DEFINED BY A SINGLE WORD --
POSSIBILITIES. ON THIS NIGHT ON
OUR 245th YEAR AS A NATION, I
HAVE COME TO REPORT ON THE STATE
OF THE NATION, THE STATE OF THE
UNION. MY REPORT IS THIS: THE
STATE OF THE UNION IS STRONG
BECAUSE YOU, THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
, ARE STRONG. WE ARE STRONGER
TODAY THAN WE WERE A
WE WILL BE STRONGER A YEAR FROM
NOW THAN WE ARE TODAY. THIS IS
OUR MOMENT TO MEET AND OVERCOME
THE CHALLENGE OF OUR TIME, AND
WE WILL AS ONE PEOPLE. ONE
AMERICA. THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA. GOD BLESS YOU ALL AND
MAY GOD PROTECT OUR TROOPS.
THANK YOU. GO GET HIM.
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT BIDEN PLEDGING A
UNITY AGENDA FOR THE NATION IN
HIS FIRST OFFICIAL STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS. AN HOUR-LONG
SPEECH SPANNING TOPICS FROM THE
WAR IN UKRAINE TO THE OPIOID
EPIDEMIC. WE SEE HIM THERE
GREETING PEOPLE IN THE CHAMBER.
THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE FROM THE
WASHINGTON POST. I AM JOINED
TONIGHT MY COLLEAGUES ON CAPITOL
HILL OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE AND
HERE IN THE NEWSROOM. LET'S GO
JOYCE KOH.
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS BIDEN IN HIS PRIME.
AT TIMES WE HAVE SEEN PRESIDENT
BIDEN LOW ENERGY, MAYBE FUMBLE
OVER HIS WORDS. TONIGHT THE TONE
WAS ONE THAT CONVEYED STRENGTH
AND PROJECTED THIS STEADINESS AS
HE DISCUSSED
WHAT HE WAS DOING ABOUT THE WAR
IN UKRAINE AS FAR AS PUNISHMENTS
ON RUSSIA AND STANDING WITH THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE. HE WAS MET
WITH THIS ENERGY IN THE ROOM
THAT WAS ONE OF COLLEGIALITY. WE
SAW MEMBERS OF BOTH REPUBLICAN
AND DEMOCRATIC SIDES
STANDING UP FOR STANDING
OVATIONS NUMEROUS TIMES,
ESPECIALLY AT THE BEGINNING OF
THE SPEECH WHEN HE WAS
ADDRESSING UKRAINE AND AMERICA'S
COMMITMENT TO SUPPORTING
UKRAINE. ONE OF THOSE MOMENTS
WHERE HE WAS --
WHERE THE CROWD REALLY STOOD UP
AND GAVE A STANDING OVATION WAS
WHEN BIDEN TALKED ABOUT, REALLY
SQUARELY TO VLADIMIR PUTIN
SAYING, RUSSIA'S PUTIN.TO SHAKE
THE VERY FOUNDATION OF THE FREE
WORLD THINKING HE COULD MAKE IT
BEND TO HIS MENACING WAYS. HE
WENT ON TO SAY PUTIN THOUGHT HE
COULD ROLL INTO UKRAINE AND THE
WORLD WOULD ROLLOVER. INSTEAD HE
WAS MET WITH A WALL THAT HE
NEVER COULD HAVE ANTICIPATED OR
IMAGINED. HE WAS MET WITH THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE. BIDEN REALLY
TALKING ABOUT HOW STRONG THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE ARE IN THIS
MOMENT WHERE RUSSIA IS
INCREASING THEIR AGGRESSION
AGAINST CIVILIANS AS WELL AS
UKRAINIAN MILITARY. HE TALKED
ABOUT HOW UKRAINIAN PEOPLE ARE
IN THE STREETS, BLOCKING RUSSIAN
TANKS. HE ALSO HAD THIS REALLY
PHENOMENAL MOMENT WITH THE
UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR WHO WAS THE
GUEST OF THE FIRST LADY. SHE
STOOD UP AS HE SAID TO MAKE YOUR
SIGNAL TO THE WORLD AS THIS
APPLAUDED HER IN UNITY. HE
ANNOUNCED SEVERAL PUNISHMENTS ON
RUSSIA FOR THEM TO BE EXACT.
INCLUDING ENFORCING ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS WITH ALLIES. CUTTING
OFF, MOST RECENTLY, RUSSIA'S
ACCESS TO THE FINANCIAL WORLD AT
LARGE. THE MOST RECENT SANCTION
BEING TARGETING THE RUSSIAN
CENTRAL BANK. HE ALSO TALKED
ABOUT CUTTING OFF RUSSIA'S
ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY SAYING THAT
IT WILL SAP THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY
AND WEAKEN ITS MILITARY FOR
YEARS TO COME. HE ANNOUNCED THAT
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE WILL
BE ESTABLISHING A TASK FORCE TO
GO AFTER RUSSIAN OLIGARCHS
SAYING THAT WE ARE JOINING WITH
EUROPEAN ALLIES TO FIND AND SEES
YOUR YACHT, LUXURY APARTMENTS,
WE ARE COMING FOR YOUR
ILL-GOTTEN GAINS. FOURTH HE
MENTIONED AND ANNOUNCED
THAT HE WILL BE JOINING U.S.
ALLIES IN CLOSING OFF U.S.
AIRSPACE TO RUSSIAN FLIGHT. HE
ADDED THAT THIS WILL ADD AN
ADDITIONAL SQUEEZE ON THE
ECONOMY. WITH THE
RUBLE ALREADY DOWN 30% OF VALUE.
WHEN HE TRANSITIONED  FROM
TALKING ABOUT UKRAINE TO
DOMESTIC POLICY HE REALLY GAVE A
MESSAGE TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
REASSURING THEM THAT WE ARE
GOING TO BE OKAY. HE SAID, WHEN
THIS AREA OF HISTORY IS WRITTEN,
PUTIN'S WERE ON THE PLANE WILL
HAVE LEFT RUSSIA WEAKER AND THE
REST STRONGER
AGAIN PRESENTING STRENGTH AND
CONFIDENCE IN THE UKRAINIAN
PEOPLE, PRINCIPLES OF DEMOCRACY
AND THE UNITY OF THE U.S. AND
THEIR ALLIES AGAINST PUTIN AND
RUSSIAN FORCES THAT ARE RIGHT
NOW IN UKRAINE.
HE ENDED THE SPEECH BY SAYING
THE STATE OF THE UNION IS
STRONG. THIS CAME AFTER TALKING
ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF
DEMOCRACY. THAT WAS ONE OF THE
THINGS WE WERE WAITING TO HEAR.
HE REALLY DOUBLED DOWN ON HIS
COMMITMENT TO DEMOCRACY AND SAID
THAT IS WHAT WILL OVERCOME
THE CHALLENGES THAT THEY
CURRENTLY FACE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
JOYCE KOH REPORTING OUTSIDE OF
THE WHITE HOUSE. WE ARE WATCHING
PRESIDENT BIDEN MAKE A SLOW
DEPARTURE FROM THE CHAMBER  AS
HE SPEAKS TO SO MANY PEOPLE,
INCLUDING JUSTICE BREYER JUST A
MOMENT AGO. THAT WAS SUCH A
TOUCHING MOMENT IN THE SPEECH
WHEN HE PRAISED JUSTICE BREYER
. HE HAD SUCH A GENUINE HUMAN
REACTION. TELL US MORE ABOUT
SOME OF THE HIGHLIGHTS TONIGHT
AND HOW CONGRESS REACT IT.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: OUT OF THE GATE
WHEN UKRAINE WAS MENTIONED AND
HE ALSO MENTIONED HE WOULD BE
CLOSING OFF AMERICAN AIRSPACE TO
RUSSIAN AIRCRAFT, YOU SAW A LOT
OF RESOUNDING SUPPORT. HE SAW
PEOPLE STANDING AND CLAPPING.
YOU SEE THAT THE CHAMBER, BOTH
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS, WERE
STANDING BEHIND THE PRESIDENT ON
HOW HE WANTS TO TAKE ON THIS
ISSUE OF UKRAINE AND HELPING THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE. I DO NOT KNOW
WHAT IT WILL BE
LEGISLATION GETS TO THE FLOOR
AND UKRAINE WHETHER IT BE A
FUNDING PACKAGE OR SOMETHING AND
HOW THAT WILL SHAPE UP. FOR NOW
THEY ALL SEEM TO BE IN A UNIFIED
SUPPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND HIS
APPROACH TO UKRAINE. HE ALSO
DISCUSSED BUILD BACK BETTER
WITHOUT SAYING BUILD BACK AT
HER. THAT IS THE SOCIAL SPENDING
PACKAGE THAT HE TRIED TO GET
THROUGH EARLIER IN THE WINTER.
IT SOMEWHAT FAILED IN
NEGOTIATIONS IN THE SENATE, BUT
WHAT HE DID WAS PULLED OUT PARTS
OF THAT LEGISLATION. BRINGING
DOWN THE COST OF PHARMACEUTICAL
DRUGS AND HE EVEN HAD ONE OF HIS
GUESTS, A YOUNG BOY THAT NEEDS
INSULIN. HE TALKED ABOUT HOW HIS
PARENTS HAD TO PAY FOR THE
INSULIN AND THAT SHOULD COME
DOWN. HE TALKED ABOUT EXPANDING
CHILD TAX CREDITS AND MEDICARE.
THOSE ARE ALL PART OF BUILD BACK
AT HER BUT HE SORT OF RECAST IT
TONIGHT. HE IS SAYING THESE ARE
THE ISSUES WE WOULD LIKE TO
TACKLE. WE WILL SEE IF THAT
APPROACH WORKS. TWO THINGS THAT
STOOD OUT TO ME.
HE HAD REPUBLICANS ON THEIR FEET
ON TWO ISSUES HE MIGHT BE TRYING
TO GET AHEAD OF IN TERMS OF WHAT
THEY ARE READYING AS THEIR
BATTLE AGAINST HIM FOR THE
MIDTERMS. ONE WAS A PHRASE WHERE
HE SAID WE DO NOT NEED TO THE
FUND THE POLICE WE NEED TO FUND
THEM. I SAW KEVIN McCARTHY,
HOUSE MINORITY LEADER STANDUP. I
SAW MEMBERS OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY STAND UP ON THAT LINE.
CALLED ON MORE
IMMIGRATION REFORM. I SAW TED
CRUZ STANDUP AND A NUMBER OF
REPUBLICAN STANDUP. HE SEEMED TO
GET AHEAD OF A LOT OF THE ISSUES
THAT HE HAD BEEN ATTACKED ON AND
TRYING TO MAKE A COMMONSENSE
APPROACH. WE LEARNED THAT HE
WOULD SET UP A CHIEF PROSECUTOR
FOR PANDEMIC FRAUD AT THE DOJ.
THAT WAS PART OF THE SPEECH WHEN
HE DISCUSSED WHERE WE ARE WITH
THE PANDEMIC AND WHERE WE ARE
GOING. THOSE WERE SOME OF THE
HIGHLIGHTS FOR ME BUT IT SEEMED
AS IF HE KNEW THE ROOM. HE KNEW
THAT THIS IS A DIVIDED SENATE
AND A DIVIDED HOUSE AND HE
WANTED TO GIVE SOMETHING TO
EVERYONE TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
&gt;&gt;&gt; ABOUT FIVE MINUTES AFTER
PRESIDENT BIDEN LEAVES THE
CHAMBER WE EXPECT TO HEAR THE
REPUBLICAN RESPONSE. THAT WILL
BE DELIVERED BY THE IOWA
GOVERNOR. LET'S GO TO JAMES FOR
MORE ON THE MAJOR TAKEAWAYS
.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS A VERY STRIKING,
MODERATE TONE FROM THE
PRESIDENT.
BRUCE REED'S FINGERPRINTS WERE
ALL OF THAT SPEECH. HE IS A
MODERATE CENTRIST DEMOCRAT FROM
THE CORPORATE RING OF THE PARTY.
IT WAS BILL CLINTON'S TOP IN
THIS TO POLICY ADVISOR AND HE
HELPED BILL CLINTON RESET AFTER
BIG LOSSES FOR DEMOCRATS IN THE
1994 WEIGHT MIDTERMS SO THAT
CLINTON COULD WIN IN 1996.
TOUGH ON POLICING AND SPEAKING
OUT AGAINST
DEFUNDING THE POLICE. WHEN HE
TALKED ABOUT ABORTION HE NOTABLY
DID NOT USE THE WORD  ABORTION.
HE DID NOT USE THE TERM BUILD
BACK BETTER. OBVIOUSLY ENDING
WITH WHAT HE CALLED
THE UNITY AGENDA. THE FOUR
THEMES THAT CAN BRING
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
TOGETHER FIGHTING CANCER HELPING
VETERANS TACKLE ADDICTION AND
MENTAL HEALTH. IT WAS REALLY THE
MOST MODERATE SOUNDING SPEECH WE
HAVE HEARD FROM JOE BIDEN SINCE
HE BECAME PRESIDENT.
IT
IS MINIMIZING DEMOCRATIC PARTY'S
LOSSES AND CLEARLY AIMED AT
APPEALING TO INDEPENDENTS WHO
CLEARLY DID NOT LIKE DONALD
TRUMP AND MAYBE GAVE
BIDEN A CHANCE AND ARE NOT HAPPY
WITH WHAT THEY'VE GOTTEN SO FAR
AND TRYING TO WIN SOME OF THOSE
PHOTOS BACK.
&gt;&gt; WHICH IS SUCH AN INTERESTING
OBSERVATION BY YOU, MOVING
TOWARD A DIVIDED GOVERNMENT.
THERE'S A PRIMARY IN TEXAS TODAY
AND MIDTERMS SEASON IS ALREADY
UNDERWAY.
&gt;&gt; I THOUGHT THAT HE ENDED WITH
A CRESCENDO
THAT TIED IT ALL TOGETHER. AT
THE VERY TOP HE SAID WE ARE
BETTER OFF THAN WE WERE A YEAR
AGO AND WE WILL BE BETTER OFF A
YEAR FROM NOW THAN WE WERE
TODAY. IT WOULD HAVE SOUND A
LITTLE TONE DEAF BUT HE REALLY
DID, IN THE ECONOMIC SECTIONS
LAYOUT
THE GAINS THAT HAVE BEEN MADE.
THREADED THE NEEDLE WHERE HE DID
NOT SOUND LIKE HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT AN ECONOMY THAT A LOT OF
AMERICANS DO NOT RECOGNIZE. WE
TALKED ABOUT, BEFORE THE SPEECH,
TRYING TO DEFLECT BLAME FOR
RISING PRICES TO CORPORATIONS.
WE HEARD HIS ATTACK ON THE MEAT
PROCESSING AND PACKAGING AND
KIND OF THE MORE POPULIST FIVE
WITH THAT ALLOWED HIM TO
ULTIMATELY GET TO THE POINT
WHERE
ANOTHER MODERATE HE THING HE
SAID WAS KIDS SHOULD BE BACK IN
SCHOOL. LET'S TURN THE PAGE ON
COVID. LET'S CHANGE THIS FROM
PANDEMIC TO ENDEMIC WHICH IS
WHAT A LOT OF MODERATE VOTERS
WANT TO HEAR.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLD AND, LET'S TALK
ABOUT THE OP TICKS. VERY FEW
MASKS AND A LOT OF BLUE AND
YELLOW FOR UKRAINE. THE FIRST
LADY WEARING A BRILLIANT BLUE
DRESS WITH A LITTLE INVERTED
SUNFLOWER RIGHT AT THE WRIST.
TALK TO US ABOUT SYMBOLISM
TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt;
THAT'S RIGHT. YOU SAW A LOT OF
SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE. HE SAW
RIBBONS IN THE COLORS OF THE
UKRAINIAN FLAG. THESE WERE ALL
SYMBOLS TO SHOW THAT THIS WHOLE
CHAMBER IS AWARE OF THE
SITUATION AND THEY ARE STANDING
IN SOLIDARITY RIGHT NOW. THAT
AND THEN, OF COURSE, THE MASKS.
THIS WAS ONE OF THE FIRST TIMES
THAT THIS CHAMBER HAS SEEN A
MASK OPTIONAL REGULATION
. BEFORE EVERYBODY HAD TO BE
MASKED ON THE HOUSE FLOOR. YOU
FACE TO FIND IF YOU DID NOT COME
MASKED.
OPTIONAL AND IT LOOKS LIKE JUST
A FEW -- I HAVE ONLY BEEN ABLE
TO COUNT JUST SEVERAL WHO HAD
MASKS ON. THAT, AGAIN,
KIND OF UNDERSCORES WHERE HE
WANTED TO BE TONIGHT. IS TALKING
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ABOUT WE
ARE COMING OUT OF THE PANDEMIC.
IT IS STILL WITH US. WILL HAVE
TO BE AWARE THAT VARIANTS COULD
POP UP BUT FOR NOW THE
GOVERNMENT WANTS TO SHOW THAT
THE PANDEMIC IS HOPEFULLY BEHIND
US OR AT LEAST IS ENDEMIC AND
WILL MOVE FORWARD AS NEEDED. HE
ALSO DISCUSSED THAT PEOPLE CAN
GO ON AND ORDER MORE TESTS FROM
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT. THAT IS
SOMETHING HE STARTED ABOUT A
MONTH AGO. YOU SAYING YOU CAN
SIGN UP FOR MORE TESTS. THE
OPTICS TONIGHT, THOSE ARE ALWAYS
AN IMPORTANT HEART OF THE STATE
OF THE UNION. SEEING WHAT IS
HAPPENING AND WHO IS DOING WHAT
IN THE CHAMBER. I CAN TELL YOU
RIGHT NOW, MOST OF THE MEMBERS
WHO HAVE LEFT THE CHAMBER
VERY NEAR ME. I KNOW AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE SHOW IT WAS
VERY QUIET WHERE WE WERE. THAT'S
NOT THE CASE RIGHT NOW. WE HAVE
A LOT OF LAWMAKERS COMING
THROUGH TO GET THE REACTION. WE
HOPE TO TALK TO A FEW SOON.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING IN HANNAH JEWELL.
WHAT DO YOU EXPECT TO HEAR AND
THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE?
&gt;&gt; RIGHT NOW WE ARE WAITING TO
HEAR FROM KIM REYNOLDS THE
GOVERNOR OF IOWA ELECTED IN 2016
. SHE WAS PREVIOUSLY THE
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. WHAT WE
WILL HERE IS HER CONTRASTING HER
STYLE OF LEADERSHIP AND
DECISIONS IN IOWA WITH THOSE OF
BIDEN AND THE DEMOCRATS,
PARTICULARLY WHEN IT COMES TO
COVID. IOWA HAS HAD VERY FEW
RESTRICTIONS. SHE'S BEEN AGAINST
MASKS,
VACCINE MANDATES. SHE BAND
SCHOOLS FROM BEING ABLE TO
IMPLEMENT MANDATES AND SCHOOLS.
WE WILL HEAR HER TOUCH ON THAT
AS WELL AS OTHER CONTRAST SUCH
AS HOW SHE HAS OPPOSED THE
TEACHING OF SYSTEMIC RACISM.
THAT IS CRITICAL RACE THEORY
TALK THAT IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW
AMONG REPUBLICANS. SHE'S OPPOSED
THE INCLUSION OF TRANS KIDS IN
SPORTS. WE HEARD BIDEN SPEAKING
ABOUT THAT AND SPEAKING UP FOR
TRANS KIDS. SHE HAS LIMITED
ABORTION ACCESS AND CUT STATE
TAXES AND IS A STAUNCH SUPPORTER
OF DONALD TRUMP. WE HAVE SEEN A
FEW LINES FROM THIS SPEECH SHE
IS ABOUT TO GIVE AT LEAST AS IT
WAS WRITTEN BEFORE THE ADDRESS.
WE KNOW FROM THAT THAT SHE IS
PLANNING TO DESCRIBE BIDEN AND
THE DEMOCRATS ARE SENDING THE
COUNTRY BACK IN TIME TO THE LATE
70s AND 80s. MOMENT SHE WOULD
DESCRIBE AS A TIME OF HIGH
INFLATION, CRIME, AND COLD WAR
TENSIONS. WE CAN EXPECT HER TO
SPEAK ABOUT THE AFGHANISTAN
WITHDRAWAL AND HOW IT, IN HER
WORDS, EMBOLDENED OUR ENEMIES TO
TRY TO PIN THE SITUATION ON
UKRAINE AT LEAST SOME BLAME ON
BIDEN AND HIS LEADERSHIP. THE
UNITED STATES. THERE WAS
ACTUALLY A MOMENT THAT WE HEARD
IN THE SPEECH WHEN BIDEN WAS
SPEAKING ABOUT
VETERANS AND ABOUT THOSE
VETERANS WHO HAVE LOST THEIR
LIVES. WE HEARD REPUBLICAN
CONGRESSWOMAN LAUREN BARBER
YELLING OUT THAT YOU PUT THEM
IN THE GROUND. FOLLOWED BY
DEMOCRATS BILLING. YOU SEE THAT
SORT OF MOMENT THAT IS HAPPENING
AND THAT TENSION THERE. AS FOR
KIM REYNOLDS,
THIS WILL BE THE BIGGEST SPEECH
OF HER CAREER SO FAR. OFTEN THE
BOTTLE IS USED AND GIVEN TO
SOMEBODY WHO IS SEEN AS A RISING
STAR IN THE OPPOSING PARTY. SHE
IS NOT A YOUNG STAR,
NECESSARILY. SHE IS A
GRANDMOTHER BUT SHE IS STILL
SEEN AS A POTENTIAL FIGURE TO
TAKE A ROLE IN THE NATIONAL
STAGE IN THE COMING YEARS. WE
SEEM TO SEE DURING BIDEN'S
SPEECH ONLY SEEMED TO GO THROUGH
AND TRY TO HEAD OFF A SOURCE OF
CRITICISMS AT THE PASS AHEAD OF
MIDTERMS AND THE REBUTTAL AND
THE CRITICISM. PARTICULARLY
AWESTRUCK WHEN IT CAME TO COVID,
SOMETHING THAT IS SO CENTRAL TO
HER REPUTATION AS A GOVERNOR WHO
HANDLED COVID DIFFERENTLY THAN
MOST OF THE COUNTRY THE LACK OF
MASKS THAT WE SAW TONIGHT MIGHT
PREVENT HER FROM BEING ABLE TO
CLAIM THE DEMOCRATS ARE NOT
MOVING FORWARD IN THE PANDEMIC.
WE WILL SEE WHAT SHE SAYS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. THE
CHAMBER IS CLEARING OUT. THE
PRESIDENT HAS LEFT AND YOU SAW
HIM THEY'RE DOING A COUPLE LAST
HANDSHAKES EVEN WITH THE PEOPLE
THAT ARE RUNNING THE CAMERAS IN
THE HOUSE CHAMBER TONIGHT. LET'S
GO TO JAMES FOR MORE ON SOME OF
THE DYNAMICS AT PLAY THIS
EVENING.
I WANT TO BE VERY CLEAR ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED. PEOPLE MIGHT HAVE
HEARD SOMEBODY YELLING OUT AS
PRESIDENT BIDEN WAS TALKING
ABOUT VETERANS, SPECIFICALLY
ABOUT HIS SON A VETERAN WHO DIED
OF CANCER. WE HEARD SOMEBODY
YELL OUT IT TURNS OUT THAT IT
WAS
THE REPUBLICAN CONGRESSWOMAN
FROM COLORADO. AS THE PRESIDENT
WAS TALKING ABOUT THESE AMERICAN
WARRIORS AND FLAG DRAPED COFFINS
SHE YELLED OUT 13 OF THEM. THAT
GOT
BOOZE AND A SHOCKED RESPONSE
FROM SOME MEMBERS OF THE CHAMBER
BECAUSE SHE WAS YELLING THIS OUT
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE SPEECH.
&gt;&gt; IT IS NOT SURPRISING COMING
FROM HER. SHE DEFEATED SCOTT
TIPTON WHO WAS A VERY
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICAN AND SHE
RAN AGAINST HIM FROM THE RIGHT
IN 2020. SHE HAS RUN-IN WITH TO
A LOT OF TROUBLE REFUSING TO
WEAR A MASK IT ALSO SAYING SHE
WAS CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON
AROUND WASHINGTON, D.C. WHEN
THAT'S NOT ALLOWED. SHE IS
SOMEBODY WHO IS OFTEN COMPETING
WITH MARJORIE TAYLOR
GREENE TO TRY TO GET ATTENTION.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT THIS HAS
BECOME A PATTERN  AND A LOT OF
THE STATE OF THE UNION'S. YOU
WILL REMEMBER THE 2009 ADDRESS
FROM OBAMA TO CONGRESS WHERE JOE
WILSON THE REPUBLICAN
CONGRESSMAN FROM SOUTH CAROLINA
YELLED ELI AS OBAMA WAS TALKING
ABOUT HEALTHCARE. THIS IS ONE OF
THOSE THINGS WHERE IT IS
UNFORTUNATE.
&gt;&gt; IT DOES GO BOTH WAYS. WE SAW
SPEAKER PELOSI RIP UP DONALD
TRUMP'S SPEECH IN A PRIOR
ADDRESS. THE QUESTION IS AS WE
WATCH FOR THIS QUESTION AS UNITY
AS THE PRESIDENT IS CALLING FOR
WHAT DO THESE DISPLAYS DEAL?
&gt;&gt;
IT'S TENSION. DOES HE TRY TO BE
BIPARTISAN OR KIND OF FDR.
THERE ARE AIDES IN BOTH CAMPS.
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT WORK FOR
BIDEN WHO THINK HE SHOULD PICK A
FIGHT WITH REPUBLICANS AND RAN
AGAINST THEM AS THE OIL OR THE
BAD GUY. HIS IMPULSES TO TRY TO
WORK WITH THEM AND TRY TO REACH
FROM COMMON GROUND WHICH SOME
THINK IS NAVE BUT WHEN YOU TALK
ABOUT SOMETHING LIKE FLORIN.
THAT PLAYS INTO THE HANDS OF
PEOPLE THAT SAY HE SHOULD RUN
AGAINST THEM RATHER THAN TRY TO
EXTEND OLIVE BRANCHES.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO RHONDA COLDEN WHO
WAS UP ON CAPITOL HILL.
&gt;&gt;
WE ARE HERE WITH REPRESENTATIVE
CASTRO THE DEMOCRAT FROM TEXAS.
THIS IS A BUSY NIGHT BECAUSE
IT'S ALSO A PRIMARY NIGHT IN
YOUR STATE. I JUST WANTED TO ASK
YOU BRIEFLY ABOUT THAT. DO YOU
THINK THAT THE REACTION THAT THE
PRESIDENT GOT THE CHAMBER TODAY,
WILL THAT HELP DEMOCRATS IN THE
MIDTERM?
&gt;&gt; I SURE HOPE SO. HE GAVE WHAT
I THOUGHT WAS A REALLY STRONG
SPEECH. THERE WAS A LOT OF
BIPARTISAN CLAPPING AND STANDING
OVATIONS
. HE TALKED ABOUT THE
DEVASTATION OF THE PANDEMIC BUT
ALSO ABOUT HOW HE'S BRINGING
AMERICA BACK AND HIS PLAN FOR
THE COMING YEAR. OF COURSE, HE
TALKED ABOUT THE SITUATION WITH
RUSSIA INVADING UKRAINE WHICH
THE WORLD IS CONCERNED ABOUT.
HE REALLY DEMONSTRATED AMERICA'S
LEADERSHIP BRINGING ALLIES
TOGETHER TO CONDEMN WHAT RUSSIA
IS DOING. I THOUGHT IT WAS A
GREAT NIGHT FOR THE PRESIDENT
.
&gt;&gt; YOU ALSO SAID ON HOUSE AND
TELL. I KNOW YOU'VE HAD A SERIES
OF BRIEFINGS ON UKRAINE.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
SANCTIONS. AS YOU HAVE SEEN, THE
WORLD AT THIS POINT HAS
SANCTIONED RUSSIA. IT IS
UNPRECEDENTED
HOW SWIFTLY AND STRONGLY THE
WORLD HAS MOVED TO CONDEMN HIM.
MANY OF US IN CONGRESS ARE
WORKING WITH THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND THE U.S.
INITIATIVE WITH THE UNITED
NATIONS TO CALL DIFFERENT
EMBASSIES AND RALLY FOR THE VOTE
TOMORROW FOR THE RESOLUTION
CONDEMNING RUSSIA. WE WILL KEEP
THE PRESSURE ON.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. RHONDA COLVIN ON
CAPITOL HILL.
WITH HER THROUGHOUT THE NIGHT.
MOMENTARILY
THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE BY IOWA
GOVERNOR KIM REYNOLDS. STAY
TUNED FOR THAT. IT IS A PRIMARY
DAY IN TEXAS TODAY. HERE ARE THE
BIG QUESTIONS. THE AP IS SAYING
GREG ABBOTT IS PROJECTED TO WIN
THE REPUBLICAN PRIMARY AND BETO
O'ROURKE IS PROJECTED TO WIN THE
DEMOCRATIC BY MARION TEXAS. THE
RACES WE ARE WATCHING TONIGHT
AND WE WILL TALK ABOUT LATER ON.
NOW THE IOWA GOVERNOR.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING. I'M KIM
REYNOLDS GOVERNOR OF THE GREAT
STATE OF IOWA. LIKE YOU, I JUST
WATCH THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. I
LISTENED AS THE GOVERNOR OF OUR
STATE, AS A MOMENT GRANDMOTHER
OF 11 WHO IS WORRIED OUR COUNTRY
IS ON THE WRONG TRACK. WE ARE
NOW ONE YEAR INTO HIS PRESIDENCY
AND INSTEAD OF MOVING AMERICA
FORWARD, IT FEELS LIKE PRESIDENT
BIDEN AND HIS PARTY HAVE SENT US
BACK IN TIME. TO THE LATE 70s
AND EARLY 80s. WHEN RUNAWAY
INFLATION WAS HAMMERING FAMILIES
. VIOLENT CRIME WAVE WAS
CRASHING OUR CITIES. SOVIET ARMY
WAS TRYING TO REDRAW THE WORLD
MAP. EVEN BEFORE TAKING THE OATH
OF OFFICE, THE PRESIDENT TOLD US
THAT HE WANTED TO QUOTE MAKE
AMERICA RESPECTED AROUND THE
WORLD AGAIN. AND TO UNITE US
HERE AT HOME. HE HAS FAILED ON
BOTH FRONTS. THE DISASTROUS
AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL DID MORE
THAN COST AMERICAN LIVES. IT
BETRAYED OUR ALLIES AND EMBOLDEN
OUR ENEMIES. NORTH KOREA IS
TESTING MISSILES AGAIN AT AN
ALARMING RATE. THE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE RECENTLY WARNED OUR
OLYMPIC ATHLETES NOT TO SPEAK
OUT AGAINST CHINA. NOW
, RUSSIA HAS LAUNCHED AN
UNPROVOKED FULL-SCALE MILITARY
INVASION OF UKRAINE. AN ATTACK
ON DEMOCRACY, FREEDOM, AND THE
RULE OF LAW. NOW ALL AMERICANS
MUST STAND UNITED IN SOLIDARITY
WITH THE BRAVE PEOPLE OF UKRAINE
AS THEY COURAGEOUSLY DEFEND
THEIR COUNTRY AGAINST AND STEER
ANY AS THEY FIGHT FOR THEIR
FREEDOM. WE SHOULD NOT IGNORE
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE RUN-UP TO
PRISONS INVASION. WAIVING
SANCTIONS ON RUSSIAN PIPELINES
WHILE ELIMINATING OIL PRODUCTION
HERE AT HOME. FOCUSING ON
POLITICAL CORRECT THIS RATHER
THAN MILITARY READINESS.
REACTING TO WORLD EVENTS INSTEAD
OF DRIVING THEM. WEAKNESS ON THE
WORLD STAGE HAS COST
. THE PRESIDENT'S APPROACH TO
FOREIGN POLICY HAS CONSISTENTLY
BEEN TOO LITTLE TOO LATE.
IT IS TIME FOR AMERICA TO ONCE
AGAIN PROJECT CONFIDENCE. IT IS
TIME TO BE DECISIVE. IT IS TIME
TO LEAD. WE CAN'T PROJECT
STRENGTH ABROAD IF WE ARE WEAK
AT HOME. THAT IS WHAT I WANT TO
DISCUSS WITH YOU TONIGHT. THE
PRESIDENT
AND DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS HAVE
SPENT THE LAST YEAR EITHER
IGNORING THE ISSUES FACING
AMERICANS OR MAKING THEM WORSE.
THEY WERE WARNED THAT SPENDING
TRILLIONS WOULD LEAD TO SOARING
INFLATION. THEY WERE TOLD THAT
THEIR ANTI-ENERGY POLICIES WOULD
SEND GAS PRICES TO NEW HEIGHTS.
THEY PLOWED AHEAD ANYWAY.
RAISING THE PRICE AT THE PUMP BY
50% AND PUSHING INFLATION TO A
FORTY-YEAR HIGH. FOUR DECADES
AGO WHEN OUR NATION WAS LAST
REELING FROM INFLATION I WAS A
YOUNG WORKING MOM JUST STARTING
OUT. MY HUSBAND KEVIN WORKED
DAYS WHILE I WATCHED THE GIRLS
AND THEN WE WOULD LITERALLY
SWITCH.
WE WOULD PASS IN THE YARD AS HE
WAS COMING HOME AND I WAS
LEAVING TO WORK EVENINGS AT THE
LOCAL GROCERY STORE. FROM ACROSS
THE CHECKOUT COUNTER I SAW THE
PAIN OF INFLATION ON MY
NEIGHBORS FACES. I SAW WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN PRICES RISE FASTER
THAN WAGES. THE BIDEN
ADMINISTRATION BELIEVES
INFLATION IS
A HIGH-CLASS PROBLEM. I CAN TELL
YOU IT IS AND EVERYBODY PROBLEM.
I SAW MOMS AND DADS PAYCHECKS
GET THEM LESS AND LESS. WATCHED
WORKING PEOPLE CHOOSE WHICH
ESSENTIALS TO TAKE HOME AND
WHICH ONES TO LEAVE BEHIND. NOW
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S DECISIONS HAVE
A WHOLE NEW GENERATION FEELING
THAT SAME PAIN. WHEN I TOOK THE
OATH OF OFFICE FIVE
PROMISED IOWANS THAT I WOULD
NEVER LOSE SIGHT OF WHO I WAS
WORKING FOR. THAT I WOULD NOT
BECOME DETACHED FROM THE
PROBLEMS THEY WERE FACING, FROM
THE PROBLEMS I HAD FACED MYSELF.
YOU DO NOT HAVE TO CHECK
GROCERIES TO SEE WHAT HIGH
INFLATION DOES TO PEOPLE. YOU
JUST NEED TO STEP OUTSIDE OF THE
DC BUBBLE. TALK TO AMERICANS
ABOUT WHAT IS ON THEIR MIND.
ASKED THEM WHAT ARE YOUR
CONCERNS, WHAT KEEPS YOU UP AT
NIGHT AND THEY WILL TELL YOU. I
CAN TELL YOU WHAT IS NOT ON THAT
LIST. THEY WILL NOT TELL YOU
THAT SPENDING TRILLIONS MORE AND
BANKRUPTING THEIR CHILDREN IS
THE ANSWER TO THEIR PROBLEMS.
THEY WON'T TELL YOU THAT WE
SHOULD BE PAYING PEOPLE NOT TO
WORK AND THEY CERTAINLY WON'T
TELL YOU THAT WE SHOULD GIVE
BILLIONS IN TAX GIVEAWAYS TO
MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES IN
DEMOCRAT-CONTROLLED STATES LIKE
CALIFORNIA AND NEW YORK AND NEW
JERSEY. THAT IS
ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN PUSHING
FOR OVER THE LAST YEAR AND THAT
IS ALL
PART OF BUILD BACK BETTER.
THANKFULLY THE PRESIDENT'S
AGENDA DID NOT PASS BECAUSE EVEN
MEMBERS OF HIS OWN PARTY SAID
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE SHARE THAT VIEW. ENOUGH
IS ENOUGH. IT IS NOT JUST WITH
DC SPENDING. AMERICANS ARE TIRED
OF THE POLITICAL CLASS TRYING TO
REMAKE THIS COUNTRY INTO A PLACE
WHERE AN ELITE FEW TELL EVERYONE
ELSE WHAT THEY CAN AND CANNOT
SAY. WHAT THEY CAN AND CANNOT
BELIEVE. THEY ARE TIRED OF
PEOPLE PRETENDING
THE WAY TO END RACISM IS BY
CATEGORIZING EVERYBODY BY THE
RACE. THEY ARE TIRED OF
POLITICIANS WHO TELL PARENTS
THEY SHOULD SIT DOWN, THE
SILENT, AND LET GOVERNMENT
CONTROL THEIR KIDS' EDUCATION
AND FUTURE. FRANKLY THEY ARE
TIRED OF THE THEATER
WHERE POLITICIANS DO ONE THING
WHEN THE CAMERAS ARE ROLLING AND
ANOTHER WHEN THEY BELIEVE YOU
CANNOT SEE THEM. WORK GOVERNORS
AND MAYORS AND FORCE MANDATES
BUT DO NOT FOLLOW THEM. WERE
ELECTED LEADERS TELL THEIR
CITIZENS TO STAY HOME WHILE THEY
SNEAK OFF TO FLORIDA FOR SUN AND
FUN. WHERE THEY DEMAND THAT YOUR
CHILD WEAR A MASK BUT THEY GO
MASK LESS. YOU HAVE HEARD
EXCUSES. THEY WERE JUST HOLDING
THEIR BREATH BUT IT'S THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO ARE WAITING
TO EXHALE. WAITING FOR THE
INSANITY TO STOP. WE NOW LIVE IN
A COUNTRY WHERE VIOLENT CRIME IS
OUT OF CONTROL. LETTER ROLE
PROSECUTORS ARE LEADING
PROSECUTORS, ARE LETTING PEOPLE
OFF EASY AND MANY DEMOCRATS
STILL WANT TO
DEFUND THE POLICE. IT SEEMS LIKE
EVERYTHING IS BACKWARDS. THE
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION REQUIRES
VACCINES FOR AMERICANS WHO WANT
TO GO TO WORK  OR PROTECT THIS
COUNTRY BUT NOT FOR MIGRANTS WHO
ILLEGALLY CROSS THE BORDER. THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TREATS
PARENTS LIKE DOMESTIC TERRORISTS
BUT LEADERS AND SHOT BLISTERS
ROAM FREE. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
ARE LEFT TO FEEL LIKE THEY ARE
THE ENEMY. THIS IS NOT THE SAME
COUNTRY IT WAS A YEAR AGO. THE
PRESIDENT TRIED TO PAINT A
DIFFERENT PICTURE TONIGHT THAT
HIS ACTIONS OVER THE LAST 12
MONTHS DO NOT MATCH THE
RHETORIC. IT IS NOT WHAT HE
PROMISED WHEN HE TOOK OFFICE. IT
DOES NOT HAVE TO BE THAT WAY.
THERE IS AN ALTERNATIVE. ACROSS
THE NATION REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS
AND LEGISLATORS ARE SHOWING
AMERICANS WHAT CONSERVATIVE
LEADERSHIP LOOKS LIKE,
MEANS TO RESPECT THE PEOPLE WE
SERVE, TO HEAR THEM OUT AND
STAND UP FOR THEM AND WALK
ALONGSIDE THEM. WE KNOW THAT OUR
PROBLEMS REQUIRE BOLD ACTION,
BUT WE ALSO KNOW THAT BOLD
ACTION DOES NOT HAVE TO MEAN
GOVERNMENT ACTION. IT IS
AMERICANS MAKING THEIR OWN
DECISIONS FOR THEIR OWN FAMILIES
AND FUTURE. REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS
FACE
THE SAME COVID-19 VIRUS HEAD ON
BUT WE HONORED YOUR FREEDOMS AND
SON RIGHT AWAY THAT LOCKDOWNS
AND SCHOOL CLOSURES CAME WITH
THEIR OWN SIGNIFICANT COST. THAT
MANDATES WERE NOT THE ANSWER. WE
ACTUALLY LISTENED TO THE SCIENCE
ESPECIALLY WITH KIDS IN SCHOOLS.
WHAT HAPPENED AND IS STILL
HAPPENING TO OUR CHILDREN OVER
THE LAST TWO YEARS IS
UNCONSCIONABLE. LEARNING LOSS,
ISOLATION, ANXIETY, DEPRESSION.
SO MANY STATES OUR KIDS HAVE
BEEN LEFT BEHIND AND SO MANY
WILL NEVER CATCH UP. THAT IS WHY
IOWA WAS THE FIRST STATE IN THE
NATION TO REQUIRE THAT SCHOOLS
OPEN THEIR DOORS. I WAS ATTACKED
BY THE LEFT, I WAS ATTACKED BY
THE MEDIA, BUT IT WAS NOT A HARD
CHOICE. IT WAS THE RIGHT CHOICE.
KEEPING SCHOOLS OPEN IS ONLY THE
START OF THE PRO PARENT,
PROFAMILY REVOLUTION THAT
REPUBLICANS ARE LEADING IN IOWA
AND STATES ACROSS THIS COUNTRY.
REPUBLICANS BELIEVE THAT PARENTS
MATTER. IT WAS TRUE BEFORE THE
PANDEMIC AND IT HAS NEVER BEEN
MORE IMPORTANT TO SAY OUT LOUD.
PARENTS MATTER. THEY HAVE A
RIGHT TO KNOW AND TO HAVE A SAY
IN WHAT THEIR KIDS ARE BEING
TAUGHT. FAMILIES ALSO HAVE EVERY
RIGHT TO LIVE IN A SAFE AND
SECURE COMMUNITY. THAT BEGINS
WITH A SAFE AND SECURE COUNTRY.
THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION HAS
REFUSED TO SECURE OUR BORDER.
THEY HAVE REFUSED TO PROVIDE THE
RESOURCES TO STOP HUMAN
TRAFFICKING
, TO STOP THE STAGGERING INFLUX
OF DEADLY DRUGS COMING INTO OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS. THEY HAVE REFUSED
TO PROTECT YOU. WITH TEXAS AND
ARIZONA LEADING THE WAY I ALONG
WITH REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS FROM
SEVERAL STATES HAVE SENT
RESOURCES TO THE BORDER. WE HAVE
ACTUALLY GONE TO THE BORDER,
SOMETHING THAT OUR PRESIDENT AND
VICE PRESIDENT HAVE YET TO DO
SINCE TAKING OFFICE. ON THE
ECONOMY, THE CONTRAST COULD NOT
BE MORE STARK. WHILE
IN DC ARE SPENDING TRILLIONS
SENDING INFLATION SOARING,
REPUBLICAN LEADERS AROUND THE
COUNTRY ARE BALANCING BUDGETS
AND CUTTING TAXES BECAUSE WE
KNOW THAT MONEY SPENT ON MAIN
STREET IS UTTER THAN MONEY SPENT
ON BUREAUCRACY. TODAY I SIGNED
LEGISLATION THAT ELIMINATES
IOWA'S TAX ON RETIREMENT INCOME
AND SETS OUR TAX RATE AT 3.9%
. THAT IS LESS THAN HALF OF WHAT
IT WAS JUST FOUR YEARS AGO.
IT SHOULD NOT COME AS A SURPRISE
THAT OUT OF THE TOP 20 STATES
WITH THE LOWEST UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE 17 HAVE REPUBLICAN
GOVERNORS. REPUBLICANS MAY NOT
HAVE THE WHITE HOUSE BUT WE ARE
DOING WHAT WE CAN TO FILL THE
LEADERSHIP VACUUM. ON THE ISSUES
THAT ARE AFFECTING AMERICANS,
REPUBLICANS ARE LEAVING. WE ARE
STANDING UP FOR PARENTS AND
KIDS. WE ARE STANDING UP FOR
LIFE. WE ARE KEEPING OUR
COMMUNITIES SAFE
THOSE IN UNIFORM. WE ARE
FIGHTING TO RESTORE AMERICA'S
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND THAT
INCLUDES BIOFUELS. WE ARE
GETTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK NOT
PAYING THEM TO STAY HOME.
OF ALL WE ARE RESPECTING YOUR
FREEDOM. BEHIND ME STANDS IOWA'S
CAPITAL. OUR LIBERTIES WE PRIZE
AND OUR RIGHTS WE WILL MAINTAIN.
THOSE ARE NOT JUST EMPTY WORDS.
IT IS A BELIEVE THAT THE
GREATNESS OF THIS STATE AND
COUNTRY LIES IN OUR PEOPLE, NOT
GOVERNMENT. YOU SHOULD NOT HAVE
TO WAKE UP EVERY MORNING AND
WORRY ABOUT THE NEXT THING THE
GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO DO TO
YOU, YOUR BUSINESS, OR YOUR
CHILDREN.
IF WE AS ELECTED LEADERS ARE
DOING OUR JOB, THEN THE
GOVERNMENT IS WORKING WELL BUT
OPERATING IN THE BACKGROUND. IT
IS SUPPORTING THE INGENUITY AND
SPIRIT OF OUR PEOPLE, NOT
DROWNING THEM OUT. IT IS KEEPING
THEM SAFE, NOT RESTRICTING THEIR
FREEDOM. THAT IS WHAT I BELIEVE,
THAT'S WHAT REPUBLICANS BELIEVE,
AND THAT'S WHAT REPUBLICANS ARE
DOING. I AM SO BLESSED TO BE THE
GOVERNOR OF IOWA, WHERE PEOPLE
ARE HUMBLE, HARD-WORKING,
PATRIOTIC. WE TAKE CARE OF EACH
OTHER AND YES WE ARE, AS THEY
SAY, IOWA NICE. YOU DO NOT HAVE
TO BE FROM IOWA
THOSE ARE THE VALUES OF AMERICA
AT ITS BEST. ALL OF AMERICA.
OVER THE LAST FEW YEARS, I PUT
MY FAITH IN IOWANS AND THEY HAVE
NOT LET ME DOWN. I ENCOURAGE
THIS PRESIDENT TO DO
TO PUT HIS FAITH IN YOU THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO HAVE NEVER
WAVERED IN YOUR BELIEF IN THIS
COUNTRY, REGARDLESS OF WHO LEADS
IT BECAUSE YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE
SHOWN THAT THE SOUL OF AMERICA
IS NOT ABOUT WHO LIVES IN THE
WHITE HOUSE. IT IS MEN AND WOMEN
LIKE YOU IN EVERY CORNER OF THIS
NATION WHO ARE WILLING TO STEP
UP AND TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
YOUR COMMUNITIES, OR YOUR
NEIGHBORS, AND ULTIMATELY FOR
YOURSELVES. BY THAT MOST
IMPORTANT MEASURE. THE STATE OF
OUR UNION IS INDEED STRONG.
THANK YOU, GOD BLESS YOU AND GOD
BLESS THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
&gt;&gt; IOWA GOVERNOR KIM REYNOLDS
WITH THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE TO
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS. LET'S GO TO
RHONDA COLVIN ON CAPITOL HILL.
&gt;&gt; I'M HERE WITH SENATOR CHRIS
FROM DELAWARE. I KNOW THAT YOU
KNOW THE PRESIDENT WELL.  WHAT
MOMENT STOOD OUT TO YOU? IF
THERE WAS ONE MOMENT TONIGHT
WHERE YOU THINK HE MAY HAVE
STRUCK THAT BALANCE AND MAKING
SURE THAT THE AMERICANS ARE
WATCHING THIS TONIGHT UNDERSTAND
HIS KEY ISSUES AND UNDERSTAND
WHAT IS NEXT IN UKRAINE.
&gt;&gt; IT IS HARD TO PICK JUST ONE
MOMENT FROM WHAT I THOUGHT WAS A
REALLY STRONG SPEECH. IN THE
OPENING COUPLE OF MINUTES HE
SPOKE FORCEFULLY AND CLEARLY
ABOUT WHAT IS AT RISK, NOT JUST
FOR UKRAINIANS, NOT JUST FOR THE
WEST, BUT UNITED STATES AS WELL
AND DEPENDING THE INDEPENDENCE
OF UKRAINE.
I THINK THAT BY HAVING THE
UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR AS HIS
GUEST AND SPEAKING CLEARLY ABOUT
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE FIGHT
THEY ARE PUTTING UP AND
CONDEMNINGAGGRESSION  HE STARTED
OFF WITH A STRONG FOOTING AND
HELP THE AVERAGE AMERICAN TO
MAYBE UNDERSTAND WHY NATO'S
FUTURE IS VITAL TO THE UNITED
STATES. IN SOME WAYS WHAT I LIKE
MOST WAS HIS CLOSING.'S UNITY
AGENDA WHERE HE LAID OUT FOUR
THINGS THAT ARE GENUINELY
BIPARTISAN AND IMPACT EVERY
AMERICAN. CANCER, MENTAL HEALTH,
OPIOID AN ADDICTION AND
SUPPORTING OUR VETERANS. I THINK
EVERY AMERICAN FAMILY IN SOME I
WAS TOUCHED BY THE WAY
ABOUT THOSE ISSUES AND HAS
CALLED ALL OF US TO ADDRESS THEM
IN A MEANINGFUL WAY.
&gt;&gt; YOU WERE JUST IN THE REGION
LOOKING AT THE SITUATION IN
UKRAINE. YOU ALSO SIT ON THE
APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE IN THE
SENATE. YOU ARE PREPARING A $10
BILLION SUPPLEMENTAL AID PACKAGE
FOR THE UKRAINIAN ISSUE. HOW
FAST IS THAT MOVING THROUGH?
WILL IT MOVE FAST AND CAN YOU
GIVE US AN UPDATE TO MARK
&gt;&gt; THE $10 BILLION QUESTION IS
WHETHER
WE WILL GET AN OMNIBUS WHICH IS
A YEAR-LONG APPROPRIATION BILL.
I AM URGING AND THERE ARE DOZENS
OF US WORKING ON THIS IN THE
SENATE AND THE HOUSE. I'M URGING
THAT THE UKRAINE SUPPLEMENTAL BE
ADDED TO THAT. I THINK WE OUGHT
TO BE PROACTIVELY FUNDING
HUMANITARIAN RELIEF FOR WHAT
WILL ALMOST CERTAINLY END UP
BEING MILLIONS OF REFUGEES THAT
WILL BE HOSTED BY POLAND AND
ROMANIA AND OTHER COUNTRIES
ALREADY STRAINED
BY THE COVID PANDEMIC AND
ALREADY AT RISK FOR FURTHER
AGGRESSION BY RUSSIA. I AM
TRYING TO BALANCE THAT
HUMANITARIAN INVESTMENT WITH
FURTHER DEFENSE INVESTMENT.
PRESIDENT BIDEN HAS ALREADY SENT
LITERALLY $1 BILLION IN MILITARY
AID TO UKRAINIAN DEFENDERS
. HE HAS GIVEN THEM STINGER
MISSILES TO SHOOT DOWN RUSSIAN
JETS AND JAVELIN MISSILES TO
SHOOT AT RUSSIAN TANKS AND
AMMUNITION AND FUEL AND OTHER
SUPPORT BUT FRANKLY AS THIS WAR
CONTINUES AND GRINDS ALONG AND
GETS MORE UGLY, I THINK MORE AND
MORE OF US WILL WANT TO PROVIDE
BOTH THE HUMANITARIAN SUPPORT
THAT THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE
URGENTLY NEED AND THE SUPPORT TO
STAY IN THE DEFENSE AGAINST
BRITAIN'S AGGRESSION.
&gt;&gt; BEYOND MONEY OR FUNDING
MEASURES SINCE YOU'VE BEEN IN
THE REGION SO RECENTLY WHAT
WOULD YOU TELL AMERICANS SHOULD
BE THE PRIMARY FOCUS NEXT?
&gt;&gt; THE MOST IMPORTANT THINGS
THAT HAVE HAPPENED THE LAST WEEK
IS THAT AFTER A YEAR OF
INVESTMENT BY PRESIDENT BIDEN
AND HIS TEAM AND REBUILDING
ALLIANCES WE HAVE SEEN SANCTIONS
IMPOSED ON RUSSIA THAT ARE
UNPRECEDENTED.
EVEN IN THE SECOND WORLD WARS
WITH DRILLING AND SWEDEN STAY
NEUTRAL. HERE THEY PICKED A SIDE
. SPORTS LEAGUES AND TEAMS
THROWING RUSSIANS OUT OF THEIR
COMPETITIONS.
SANCTIONS HAVE COME DOWN VERY
HARD AND WE ARE TARGETING THE
BILLIONAIRES WHO HAVE SIPHONED
OFF THE WEALTH OF RUSSIA AND ARE
HIDING IT
IN PLACES LIKE MONACO AND
LONDON. THE UNITY OF THE WESTERN
ALLIANCE AGAINST PUTIN'S
STRIKING. IT'S THE DIRECT RESULT
OF PRESIDENT BIDEN'S HARD WORK
AND LEADERSHIP OVER THIS ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; I NOTICED THAT THE PRESIDENT
DID NOT MENTION BUILD BACK
BETTER. HE HAD SET PIECES
AND DISCUSSED THAT THOSE THINGS
NEED TO BE PASSED. WHAT ARE THE
ODDS THAT THE SENATE WILL TAKE
UP THOSE ISSUES? EVEN JUST THE
ONE ON PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG
PRICES.
&gt;&gt; I NOTICED THAT SENATOR
MANCHIN  STOOD UP AND
CLAPPING ENTHUSIASTICALLY. HE
ALSO HIGHLIGHTED JOSH, A YOUNG
MAN FROM OHIO WHO IS DIABETIC
AND STRUGGLING TO AFFORD THE
MEDICATIONS HE SO DESPERATELY
NEEDS. THAT IS ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT PRESIDENT BIDEN ALSO
BROUGHT TO HIS SPEECH.
HE SAYING I KNOW HOW HARD THIS
PANDEMIC HAS BEEN AND EVEN
THOUGH WE HAVE RECORD GROWTH WE
ALSO
GOING TO TACKLE THINGS LIKE
HEALTHCARE COSTS, DAYCARE AND
CHILDCARE COSTS AND PRESCRIPTION
AND MEDICATION COST IS. I WAS
ENCOURAGED TO SEE HIM CHEERING
THAT PARTICULAR ONE.
&gt;&gt; NOW LET'S BRING IN
HANNAH JEWELL. SHE'S BEEN
TRACKING THE REPUBLICAN
RESPONSES TONIGHT FROM THE
OUTBURSTS IN THE CHAMBER TO
CHEERS TO THE OFFICIAL RESPONSE
.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD SAY THAT SHE SET UP
THIS BIG HEARTLAND VERSUS
COASTAL ELITE DEMOCRATIC
NARRATIVE WHICH IS PERHAPS NOT A
SURPRISE. SHE DID NAME CHECK
CALIFORNIA, NEW JERSEY, AND NEW
YORK TO SET THIS UP QUITE
EXPLICITLY NAMING THE STATES OF
HER CRITIQUE. HE HEARD AS
EXPECTED SHE SAID THAT SHE
ACCUSED
BIDENS DEMOCRATS HAVE TAKEN US
BACK IN TIME TO THE LATE 70s AND
EARLY 80s CAREFULLY CRITIQUING
THE CARTER YEARS WITHOUT
ENCROACHING ON FOR THE REAGAN
TERRITORY. THE TIME AS SHE HAD
IT IS INFLATION THAT SHE
RECALLED
WORKING IN A CHECKOUT COUNTER AT
A GROCERY STORE AND THE PAIN OF
PEOPLE ENCOUNTERING INFLATION
AND SAYING THAT SHE RELATES THAT
TO THIS TIME. SHE MADE, SPEAKING
ABOUT AFGHANISTAN
AND UKRAINE, SHE MADE A STRANGE
CLAIM THAT DEMOCRATS WERE
FOCUSING ON POLITICAL
CORRECTNESS RATHER THAN MILITARY
READINESS. YOU SEE HER HITTING
THESE POPULAR CULTURE WAR LINES
THAT ARE USEFUL IN AN ELECTION.
SHE IS ACTUALLY FACING AN
ELECTION QUITE SOON. SHE SAID
THAT THE U.S. CANNOT PROJECT
STRENGTH ABROAD IF THEY ARE WEEK
AT HOME.
SHE CRITIQUED THE WITHDRAWAL
FROM AFGHANISTAN SAYING IT
EMBOLDENED OUR ENEMIES BUT ALSO
SAID AMERICANS SHOULD STAND IN
SOLIDARITY WITH THE BRAVE PEOPLE
OF UKRAINE. SHE ALSO HIT
THOSE LINES ABOUT COVID
CONTRASTING THE RESPONSE OF
REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS LIKE
HERSELF TO COVID WITH VERY FEW
RESTRICTIONS TO THOSE DEMOCRATIC
GOVERNORS AND AT THE NATIONAL
LEVEL. SHE SAID THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ARE WAITING TO EXHALE
SPEAKING ABOUT MASKS BUT OF
COURSE WE SAW TONIGHT ALMOST
EVERYBODY IN CONGRESS, DEMOCRATS
INCLUDED WERE NOT MASKED
TONIGHT. THEY WERE INDEED
EXHALING WITHOUT MASKS. SHE
REALLY FOCUSED ON CHILDREN AND
ON PARENTS SAYING WHAT HAS
HAPPENED TO OUR CHILDREN OVER
THE LAST FEW YEARS IS
UNCONSCIONABLE. SHE SAID THAT
PARENTS MATTER.
BELIEVE THAT PARENTS MATTER
PRESUMABLY A PLAY ON THE PHRASE
LACK LIVES MATTER. TALKING ABOUT
THE RIGHT OF PARENTS TO MAKE
DECISIONS ABOUT COVID AND THAT
HAS BEEN SUCH A POPULAR LINE.
SO IT IS THE TALE AS OLD OF TIME
AND IS AMERICAN POLITICS BUT
CERTAINLY ONE THAT IS STILL
GOING STRONG.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO JAMES HOHMANN FOR
MORE ON HOW POTENT THIS
MESSAGING IS. WE HEARD PRESIDENT
BIDEN  TALK ABOUT IN HIS SPEECH
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THIS HAS BEEN
A TIME OF DEEP CHALLENGES
TALKING ABOUT -- TALKING ABOUT
HOW AMERICA CAN MOVE FORWARD
WITH THE PANDEMIC. JAMES, IS IT
THIS OPPORTUNITY FOR REPUBLICANS
OR IS THE OPPORTUNITY PASSING
THEM BY?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT MESSAGE FROM
GOVERNOR REYNOLDS WAS AIMED AT
SUBURBAN WOMEN WHO TRADITIONALLY
VOTED REPUBLICAN, BUT BACKED JOE
BIDEN IN 2020 BECAUSE THEY WERE
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH DONALD TRUMP.
IT IS NOT LIKE SHE WOULD HAVE
SAID HIS NAME, BUT IT WAS A VERY
UN-TRUMPY SPEECH. SHE IS NOT
SOMEBODY WHO'S GOING TO BE
RUNNING FOR THE REPUBLICAN
NOMINATION FOR PRESIDENT IN
2024. SHE IS NOT
THREATENING OTHER RISING FIGURES
IN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY. I HAVE
KNOWN HER SINCE SHE WAS A STATE
SENATOR BEFORE SHE BECAME
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR IN 2011. SHE
DELIVERED THE KIND OF MESSAGE,
OBVIOUSLY THERE WERE SOME
CULTURE WAR BOX CHECKING KIND OF
ELEMENTS THAT HANNAH TALKED
ABOUT THAT OVERALL IT WAS JUST
ABOUT TRYING TO REACH THESE
DISAFFECTED VOTERS THAT WANT TO
COME HOME TO THE GOP IN THE
MIDTERMS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. LET'S BRING IN
DAVE. THANK YOU FOR HANGING WITH
US HERE AFTER THE SPEECHES. YOU
HAVE BEEN COVERING THE RACES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY. THE
MIDTERMS,
LONG BEFORE THEY HAPPEN ON
ANYBODY ELSE'S RADAR. I WANT TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT THE RECENT
TEXAS. IS HIS PRIMARY DAY IN
TEXAS. WHAT CAN YOU TELL US
ABOUT HOW THINGS ARE SHAPING UP
AND WHAT WE CAN READ INTO THOSE
RESULTS.
&gt;&gt; AS IT RELATES TO THE SPEECH
BY THE PRESIDENT TONIGHT, YOU
HAVE HIGHER REPUBLICAN
ENTHUSIASM BUT YOU HAD
MORE TURNOUT IN REPUBLICAN
AREAS. THERE WAS A REPUBLICAN
TURNOUT SURGEON SOUTH TEXAS
WHERE THE VOTERS MAJORITY HAVE
BEEN VERY UNHAPPY WITH
IMMIGRATION POLICY. YOU'VE HAD
MASSIVE COMPLICATIONS IN BIG
URBAN COUNTIES BECAUSE OF THE
VOTING LAW THAT WAS PASSED LAST
YEAR. THE PRESIDENT MADE A
MENTION OF PASSING VOTING REFORM
BUT IT WAS ONE OF SEVERAL THINGS
IN THE SPEECH THAT YOU CAN
IMAGINE AND INTEREST GROUP,
BUT ONE THAT DOES NOT HAVE AN
ACTIVE PLAN TO GET IT THROUGH
THE SENATE. WHAT HAPPENED IN
TEXAS SO FAR AS THAT IT IS
PRETTY CLEAR THAT PROGRESSIVES
WON A SEAT THAT WAS DESIGNED TO
ELECT A DEMOCRAT IN AUSTIN.
THE CHAMPION OF THE AUSTIN
EFFORT TO CUT THE FUNDING IS
PROBABLY GOING TO WIN THE
DEMOCRATIC NOMINATION AND WILL
PROBABLY HEAD OFF TO CONGRESS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE PRESIDENT
WAS VERY POINTEDLY SAYING HE'S
NOT FOR
DEFUNDING THE POLICE AND SAYING
WE NEED TO FUND THE POLICE. GOT
A LOT OF CHEERS  IN THE ROOMS
BUT MAYBE A LITTLE BIT OF
PROTEST FROM COREY BUSCH OF
MISSOURI WHO TALKED ABOUT HOW
THE PRESIDENT HAS NOT FULFILLED
CLEMENCY APPLICATIONS. SO YOU
SAW THE PRESIDENT MOVING AWAY ON
A COUPLE OF PRIORITIES. NOT ON
THE REST. DON'T THINK YOU WILL
HEAR MANY COMPLAINTS FROM
DEMOCRAT GROUPS ABOUT WHAT THE
PRESIDENT MENTIONED AND WHAT HE
DIDN'T. IT IS REALLY DOWN TO
SOME ACADEMICS THAT STILL
SUPPORT THAT AN ACTIVIST THAT
STILL SUPPORT IT BUT NOT REALLY
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
&gt;&gt; ARE YOU WATCHING AND
LISTENING FOR DEVELOPMENTS IN
UKRAINE TO IMPACT HOW AMERICAN
VOTERS ARE THINKING ABOUT
LEADERSHIP?
&gt;&gt; WAS THAT A QUESTION FOR ME?
&gt;&gt; IT WAS.
&gt;&gt; I MISSED THE TOP OF IT.
&gt;&gt; SO FAR IN TEXAS, ONE
DEVELOPMENT THAT MIGHT BE
RELATED TO THIS, A NAVY SEAL
THAT WAS RUNNING FOR ANOTHER
STATE SEE,
IT IS A SAFE SEAT THANKS TO THE
NEW MAP BUT HE IS VERY CLOSE TO
WINNING WITHOUT A RUNOFF IN A
RACE THAT EVEN SOME OF HIS
SUPPORTERS THOUGHT MIKE TO A
SECOND ROUND. HE IS A DECORATED
NAVY SEAL. HE WAS BROUGHT INTO
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION BY RICK
PERRY AND FACE THE PRIMARY
AGAINST A CHALLENGER THAT WAS
ATTACKING HIM FOR TAKING MONEY
LINKING HIM TO THE JANUARY 6
INVESTIGATION AND LINKING HIM TO
THE EFFORT. THAT APPEARS NOT TO
HAVE WORKED. IT COULD NOT HAVE
HURT BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE
FOCUSED ON UKRAINE AND AMERICAN
STRENGTH ABROAD AND BASICALLY
REAL ISSUES AFFECTING PEOPLE'S
LIVES AROUND THE WORLD AND NOT
ON SOME OF THOSE
PICK AN ISSUE. I HAVE NOT SEEN
MUCH OF THAT YET. PEOPLE HAVE
RUNNING FOR OFFICE WITH A COUPLE
OF EXCEPTIONS THEY PICK VERY
POPULAR WAYS TO GO AFTER RUSSIA.
THAT THE PRESIDENT MENTIONED
GOING AFTER OLIGARCHS
. YOU START TO SEE THAT IN THE
CAMPAIGNS BUT THE ONES I HAVE
BEEN SEEING A MORE COMFORTABLE
STICKING TO THE ISSUES THEY WERE
ALREADY RUNNING ON A MAYBE
LINKING THEM TO UKRAINE. GREG
ABBOTT WHO WON THE GOVERNOR'S
NOMINATION FOR A THIRD TERM
TONIGHT, A LITTLE BIT MORE
DEMANDING THAN IT LOOKED AT
FIRST AT THE VERY END OF THE
CAMPAIGN IS REPEATING THIS
REFRAIN THAT JOE BIDEN IS MORE
CONTAINED WITH THE UKRAINIAN
BORDER THAN THE U.S. AND MEXICAN
BORDER. THAT WILL BE A THEME IN
CAMPAIGNS AT LEAST FOR THE TIME
BEING. MORE THAN SOLIDARITY WITH
UKRAINE THE IDEA
THAT THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION IS
TOO FOCUSED ON OTHER COUNTRIES
AND IS LETTING CRIME RUN RAMPANT
THROUGH THE COUNTRY THANKS TO
THEIR INABILITY TO SECURE THE
BORDER. THAT IS MORE OF A SAFE
DAYS FOR REPUBLICANS TO CAMPAIGN
THAN ANYTHING ELSE HAPPENING.
&gt;&gt;
WE SAW FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP
DEFENDING VLADIMIR PUTIN. WE SAW
HIM OVER THE WEEKEND REALLY MAKE
THE STRONGEST INDICATION THAT HE
MAY RUN FOR PRESIDENT
IN 2024. HOW MUCH IS A HERO
FACTOR IN REPUBLICAN POLITICS
AND WHAT VOTERS ARE LOOKING FOR
AND LEADERSHIP?
&gt;&gt; TEXAS IS A VERY GOOD PLACE TO
LOOK AT THAT. THE FORMER
PRESIDENT ENDORSED A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN THESE PRIMARIES. KEN
PAXTON THE ATTORNEY GENERAL IS
DEFINITELY
GOING TO MAKE A RUNOFF AND WILL
DEFINITELY BE THE LEADER HEADING
INTO THE RUNOFF. THE FACT THAT
TRUMP ENDORSED HIM ALMOST
GUARANTEES THAT TRUMP WILL TAKE
CREDIT. IF HE GETS A RUNOFF
AGAINST GEORGE P BUSH I DO NOT
KNOW WHAT TRUMP WILL DO IN THAT
CIRCUMSTANCE BUT THAT WAS KIND
OF LIKE PAXTON'S PEOPLE WANT IS
REMINDING PEOPLE THAT THERE IS A
TRUMP ENDORSED CANDIDATE.
FURTHER DOWN THE BALLOT TRUMP
ENDORSED A LOT OF CANDIDATES AND
I THINK IT HELPED TO THEM TO GET
ENOUGH ATTENTION THAT THEY MAY
AND SHOULD AVOID RUNOFFS THAT
INCLUDES THE
COMMISSIONER AND MONICA DE LA
CRUZ WHO IS RUNNING FOR THE ONE
SWING SEAT IN THE STATE WHICH
CONNECTS McALLEN TO THE GREATER
SAN ANTONIO AREA. SHE RAN IN
2020 AND DID VERY WELL BECAUSE
OF THE SURGE IN SOUTH TEXAS. SHE
LOOKS LIKE SHE WILL CLEAR THIS
RACE WITHOUT A RUNOFF. THERE IS
A PARTY SWITCHER IN THE
AREA. HE IS A CONSERVATIVE
DEMOCRAT.
RUNNING ADS ABOUT
HOW HE SUPPORTS TRUMP. HE ALSO
LOOKS LIKE HE WILL SUCCEED. IF
YOU FLIP THIS A LITTLE BIT,
REPUBLICANS WHO HAD CHALLENGED
TRUMP IN ANY WAY AND THIS IS
USUALLY BY QUESTIONING WHETHER
HE SHOULD HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
OVERTURN THE ELECTION, THEY LOOK
TO BE SURVIVING IN TEXAS BUT
THERE IS A SUBSTANTIAL VOTE
AGAINST THEM.
MAN TAYLOR IS RIGHT ON THE EDGE
OF BEATING A RUNOFF AGAINST SOME
CANDIDATES WITH EXPERIENCE BUT
REALLY A BALLOT THAT EXISTS
BECAUSE HE SAID THAT BIDEN WON
THE ELECTION IN 2020. THAT
FUELED THE PRIMARY AGAINST HIM.
IN THE JUDICIAL RACE IT LOOKS
LIKE AN INCUMBENT JUDGE WILL WIN
AGAIN FOR THAT SEE
BY AT LEAST 10 POINTS BUT THE
FACT THAT HE WAS BEING
CHALLENGED WAS DUE TO
CONSERVATIVE ACTIVISTS WITH IN
TEXAS COMPLAINING THAT HE DID
NOT DO MORE TO CHALLENGE THE
ELECTION RESULTS. SO THE STORY
IN TEXAS OVER THE NEXT 12 WEEKS
WILL BE KEN PAXTON, NOT JUST THE
MAN BEHIND THIS TEXAS LAWSUIT TO
OVERTURN THE ELECTION RESULTS
BUT HIM IN A RUNOFF WITH GEORGE
P BUSH. YOU WILL HAVE A
CONSERVATIVE RUNOFF WITH TRUMP
AS A DECISIVE FACTOR OR. I THINK
THAT IS THE PLACE WHERE DONALD
TRUMP IS VERY HAPPY TO BE
. THE IDEA THAT HE REMAINS IN
CONTROL OF THE PARTIES AND THEIR
NARRATIVE AND FOCUS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. I WANT TO
BRING IN
JAMES HOHMANN TO TALK ABOUT THE
MIDTERMS. IT MAY FEEL LIKE
NOVEMBER IS FAR AWAY BUT FOR
PRESIDENT BIDEN AND HIS TEAM AND
FOR  POLITICAL OPERATIVES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY MARCH 1 IS A BIG
DAY.
&gt;&gt; IT IS THE START OF THE
PRIMARY SEASON. THE MIDTERMS
LITERALLY HAVE BEGUN WITH THIS
VOTE IN TEXAS TODAY. THE STATE
OF THE UNION WILL BE MUCH LATER
THAN YOU TYPICALLY WOULD SEE THE
STATE OF THE UNION. THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME IN A CENTURY WE HAVE
SEEN THE STATE OF THE UNION
HAPPENED IN MARCH.
IT IS HAPPENING AGAINST THE
BACKDROP OF THESE ELECTIONS. I
MENTIONED RIGHT AFTER THE SPEECH
ENDED THAT IT SEEMED LIKE BIDEN
WAS PREPARING FOR DIVIDED
GOVERNMENT. THE NUMBERS ARE
PRETTY TOUGH FOR DEMOCRATS.
THESE ARE THE SENATE RACES AND
CYCLE. IF YOU TALK TO ANY
DEMOCRAT ON CAPITOL HILL DAY
WILL ESSENTIALLY ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THE HOUSE IS LOST FOR THEM.
THAT REPUBLICANS WILL CONTROL
THE HOUSE. 50-50 SENATE
DEMOCRATS STILL HAVE SOME HOPES
OF CARRYING WITH KAMALA HARRIS
CASTING THE TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
WE CAN GO TO ANOTHER GRAPHIC
THAT SHOWS THE COMPETITIVE
SENATE RACES. IT IS A LOT OF
THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION STATES
BIDEN NARROWLY WON IN 2020. THE
WASHINGTON POST POLL THAT CAME
OUT THIS WEEK AND SHOWED THAT
REPUBLICANS HAVE A LEAD ON THE
GENERIC BALLOT WHICH GENERALLY
ASKS VOTERS WHO YOU WOULD RATHER
HAVE CONTROL CONGRESS.
THEY HAVE THE SAME LEAD THAT THE
DEMOCRATS HAD BEFORE THE 2018
MIDTERM ELECTIONS WHICH WERE
OBVIOUSLY HUGE FOR DEMOCRATS. IF
THOSE NUMBERS HOLD YOU ARE VERY
LIKELY TO SEE REPUBLICAN PICKUPS
IN GEORGIA AND ARIZONA AND
POTENTIALLY NEVADA
AND WISCONSIN, NEW HAMPSHIRE.
YOU COULD REALLY SEE A PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT REPUBLICAN PICKUP.
THAT IS WHY
YOU ARE STARTING TO SEE
PRESIDENT BIDEN. HE DID NOT TALK
ABOUT JANUARY 6 OR DONALD TRUMP.
HE FOCUSED ON THESE ISSUES THAT
HE CALLED THE UNITY AGENDA ON
FOREIGN-POLICY. IT IS ABOUT
TRYING TO IMPROVE HIS PARTY'S
STANDING
SO HE CAN GET MORE DONE DURING
THE LAST YEARS OF HIS TERM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE OF THE
WASHINGTON POST
OF PRESIDENT BIDEN'S STATE OF
THE UNION ADDRESS. WE HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT POLITICS AND THE
MIDTERM ELECTIONS BUT LET'S GO
BACK TO THE TOP OF PRESIDENT
BIDEN'S SPEECH. AT THE VERY
BEGINNING HE TOOK TIME TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE AMBASSADOR TO
THE UNITED STATES WHO WAS
ATTENDING AS A GUEST OF THE
FIRST LADY. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; TO EVERY UKRAINIAN. THEIR
FEARLESSNESS AND DETERMINATION
LITERALLY INSPIRES THE WORLD.
GROUPS OF CITIZENS BLOCKING
TANKS WITH THEIR BODIES.
EVERYBODY FROM STUDENTS TO
RETIREES AND TEACHERS TURNING
SOLDIERS DEFENDING THEIR
HOMELAND. THIS STRUGGLE,
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY
SAID IN HIS SPEECH LIGHT WOMAN
OVER DARKNESS. UKRAINIAN A
BYSTANDER  OF THE UNITED STATES
IS HERE TONIGHT SITTING WITH THE
FIRST LADY. IF YOU ARE ABLE TO
STAND
SEND AN UNMISTAKABLE SIGNAL TO
THE WORLD. THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS EARLIER TONIGHT.
PRESIDENT BIDEN ACKNOWLEDGING
THE UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE
UNITED STATES. LET'S BRING JOYCE
BACK TO THE CONVERSATION.
WE KNEW THAT UKRAINE WOULD BE
THE TOP ITEM AT THE BEGINNING OF
TONIGHT'S SPEECH.
&gt;&gt; ALL EYES WERE ON PRESIDENT
BIDEN AS THE RUSSIAN INVASION
. HE STARTED OFF THE SPEECH BY
TALKING ABOUT HIS SUPPORT FOR
THE PEOPLE OF UKRAINE, REALLY
EMPHASIZING THEIR COURAGE AND
MOMENTS LIKE WE HAVE SEEN
ON THE GROUND WHERE UKRAINIAN
PEOPLE ARE STANDING UP TO
RUSSIAN TANKS. THAT HE TALKED
ABOUT VLADIMIR PUTIN. LISTEN TO
WHAT HE HAD TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; SIX DAYS AGO RUSSIA WAS ONE
OF THE PATENTS SOUGHT TO SHAKE
THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE FREE
WORLD THINKING HE COULD MAKE IT
AND TO HIS MENACING WAYS. HE
BADLY MISCALCULATED. HE THOUGHT
HE COULD ROLL INTO UKRAINE AND
THE WORLD WOULD ROLLOVER.
INSTEAD, HE MET WITH A WALL OF
STRENGTHS HE NEVER ANTICIPATED
OR IMAGINED. HE MET THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE. [APPLAUSE]
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS JUST ONE OF THE MANY
MOMENTS WE SAW AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE SPEECH WHERE A BIPARTISAN
GROUP OF LAWMAKERS, REALLY
EVERYBODY IN THE CHAMBER STOOD
UP TO GIVE A STANDING OVATION TO
THE MESSAGE THAT PRESIDENT BIDEN
HAD FOR VLADIMIR PUTIN IN
SUPPORT OF THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE
AS THEY ENDURE THIS INVASION OF
THEIR COUNTRY. HE DID MAKE ONE
CLEAR DISTINCTION. PRESIDENT
BIDEN IS, OF COURSE, THE
PRESIDENT WHO JUST WITHIN THE
LAST YEAR WITHDREW
ALL OF THE TROOPS FROM
AFGHANISTAN SO HE IS SOMEBODY
WHO IS VERY AWARE OF HOW MUCH OF
A WAR WEARY NATION WE ARE AND HE
HAD A MESSAGE DIRECTLY
ADDRESSING THAT, SAYING THAT WE
WILL NOT BE AT WAR WITH UKRAINE
AND OUR FORCES WILL NOT BE
DIRECTLY ENGAGED IN THIS
CONFLICT, BUT REITERATING HIS
SUPPORT OF
THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE
. HE SAID VERY PLAINLY THAT OUR
FORCES ARE NOT GOING TO EUROPE
TO FIGHT IN UKRAINE. HE SAID IN
THE EVENT THAT PUTIN DECIDES TO
KEEP MOVING WEST HE WILL
CONTINUE TO DEFEND OUR NATO
ALLIES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH JOYCE.
LET'S GO TO THE WASHINGTON POST
REPORTER MARIANNA SOTO MAYOR WHO
WAS IN THE HOUSE CHAMBER TONIGHT
TO WITNESS PRESIDENT BIDEN STATE
OF THE UNION ADDRESS IN PERSON.
SHE JOINS US NOW. THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR TAKING A MOMENT TO TALK
WITH US. FIRST OF ALL, JUST GIVE
US A SENSE OF WHAT WE WERE NOT
ABLE TO SEE AND FEEL BECAUSE WE
WERE NOT THERE. WHAT WAS IT LIKE
TO BE IN THE CHAMBER TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS VERY DIFFERENT FROM
LAST YEAR. THE MAIN REASON WHY
IS
BARELY ANY MEMBERS WORE MASKS.
YOU REMEMBER LAST YEAR MANY
MEMBERS WERE SEPARATED FROM EACH
OTHER. EVERYBODY IN THE CHAMBER
HAD TO WEAR A MASK. NOW MANY
PEOPLE, NOT MANY PEOPLE ATTENDED
FOR THAT REASON SO THAT'S THE
NUMBER ONE THING I NOTICED VERY
EARLY ON. I'M SURE THAT YOU SAW
THAT MANY MEMBERS WERE WEARING
THE COLORS OF THE UKRAINIAN FLAG
BUT EVEN BEFORE THAT WE ACTUALLY
SAW A REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN
BRIAN FITZPATRICK HANDING OUT
THE UKRAINIAN FLAG WHICH MANY
MEMBERS WAVED DURING THE
BIPARTISAN MOMENT THAT
HE SPOKE ABOUT BACK IN UKRAINE
AT EVERY POSSIBLE STEP. THERE
WERE OTHER TIMES THAT
REPUBLICANS JOINED DEMOCRATS IN
GIVING BIDEN A STANDING OVATION.
WHEN HE SPOKE ABOUT ADDING MORE
TECHNOLOGY
RESOURCES AND THE FIRST TIME WE
SAW CONGRESSWOMAN MARJORIE
TAYLOR GREENE  AND LAUREN
BOEBERT STAND UP AND CHEER WHEN
HE SAID WE ARE ALL AGAINST  THE
FUNDING THE POLICE.
&gt;&gt; YOU MENTIONED
BOEBERT. LET'S TALK ABOUT HER
OUTBURST
. WHAT WAS THE REACTION BY
EVERYBODY ELSE IN THE CHAMBER?
&gt;&gt; IT WAS INTERESTING BECAUSE
THEY WERE SITTING VERY CLOSE TO
EACH OTHER AND THEY WERE SITTING
WITH A NUMBER OF REPUBLICAN
FRESHMEN. FOR THE MOST PART,
THEY SAT DOWN A LOT. MANY
REPORTERS WERE WATCHING THEM
BECAUSE THEY WERE TALKING
AMONGST EACH OTHER LAUGHING AT
TIMES WHEN BIDEN WOULD SAY
SOMETHING. OF COURSE, THE ONE
OUTBURST CAME FROM
BIDEN STARTED TO TALK ABOUT IRAQ
AND AFGHANISTAN. HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT THE FACT THAT MANY
VETERANS HAD COME HOME TO THE
U.S. AFTER THOSE WARS AND
DEVELOPED CANCER AND FOUND
THEMSELVES DRAPED WITH THE
AMERICAN FLAG OVER THERE COFFIN
AND AT THAT POINT IS WHEN SHE
ACTUALLY YELLED ESSENTIALLY
BLAMING BIDEN THAT IT WAS HIS
FAULT. HE MENTIONED, YOU KILLED
13 AMERICANS
. SHE WAS REFERENCING THE 13
AMERICANS THAT DIED WHEN BIDEN
WITHDREW TROOPS FROM THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT
WAS THEM NOTABLE PART BUT
MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE WAS
HAGGLING
WITH SOME MEMBERS SAME SIT DOWN
OR BE QUIET.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
JAMES, IN A WAY IT SERVES A
PURPOSE BECAUSE WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT THOSE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
WHO CHOSE NOT TO COMPORT
THEMSELVES WITH RESPECT TONIGHT.
LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING
ON HERE. THE COLLEGIALITY
. THESE ARE WAYS THAT WE SAW
SOME UNITY ON TONIGHT IN THE
STATE OF THE UNION.
&gt;&gt; IT GOT LESS ATTENTION THAN
LAUREN BOEBERT AND MARJORIE
TAYLOR GREENE  THAT I NOTICED
THAT JOE MANCHIN SAT WITH MITT
ROMNEY ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE OF
THE AISLE. IT IS A REMINDER THAT
IT IS A 50-50 SENATE. THEY NEED
EVERY DEMOCRAT TO PASS
EVERYTHING ON PARTY LINES. THE
PRESIDENT APPOINTED THE TIME
BUILD BACK BETTER BECAUSE JOE
MANCHIN MADE CLEAR HE'S NOT
GOING TO VOTE FOR BUILD BACK
BETTER. THE FIRST STATE OF THE
UNION IS DO NO HARM. PRESIDENT
BIDEN DID NOT DO ANYTHING TO
HURT HIMSELF TONIGHT.
HE IS TRYING TO WIN BACK PEOPLE
WHO VOTED FOR HIM
THEY WERE WATCHING THOSE FIRST
10 MINUTES ABOUT UKRAINE AND THE
LAST 10 MINUTES ABOUT THE UNITY
AGENDA, IT SEEMS PROBABLE THAT
HE WILL MAKE INROADS
. THESE DO NOT LEAD TO THE KIND
OF
WILL SEE, PRESIDENT BIDEN WILL
FLY TO
WISCONSIN TOMORROW TO TRY TO
CONTINUE HAMMERING ON SOME OF
THESE THEMES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. LET'S GO
TO RHONDA COLVIN FOR FINAL
THOUGHTS TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS A MIX OF SO MANY
CRUCIAL ISSUES FACING THIS
ADMINISTRATION AS WELL AS THIS
CONGRESS. FROM WHAT I AM HEARING
FROM PEOPLE ON THE HILL BETWEEN
THE TIME YOU CAME TO ME I HAVE
BEEN TRYING TO SPEAK TO MEMBERS
BECAUSE WE HAVE A LINE OF PEOPLE
WHO WANTED TO TALK TO US. WE
CAN'T BE ON ALL NIGHT BUT IT
APPEARS THAT SO MANY PEOPLE
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS ARE
HERE TO SUPPORT UKRAINE.
OFF-CAMERA SOME TOLD ME THAT
THEY ARE GRAVELY CONCERNED ABOUT
THE NEXT FEW DAYS AND WEEKS
AHEAD IN UKRAINE. IT LOOKS LIKE
THERE IS CERTAINLY UNITY IN
THEIR AND WE SAW THE PRESIDENT
TAP INTO THAT UNITY. OF COURSE,
THE DOMESTIC AGENDA. I JUST
SPOKE TO A REPUBLICAN
CONGRESSMAN WHO TALK ABOUT SOME
OF THE ISSUES HE HAD WITH
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S ENERGY
POLICIES. IT SEEMS LIKE THE
DOMESTIC PROPOSALS ARE STILL IN
FLUX
. THERE WAS A LOT TO WATCH IN
THE NEXT COMING DAYS AND MONTHS
INCLUDING THE TRAIL TO THE
MIDTERMS. THAT IS WHAT IS ALSO
ON SO MANY PEOPLE'S MINDS RIGHT
NOW. THE HOUSE HAS HAD A RECORD
NUMBER OF DEMOCRATS WHO HAVE
DECIDED NOT TO SEEK REELECTION.
THERE IS SO CONCERNED THERE
THAT THIS COULD BE A REPUBLICAN
CONTROLLED HOUSE AFTER THE NEXT
ELECTION. A CONFLUENCE OF SO
MANY ISSUES HAPPENING ON CAPITOL
HILL.
SO MANY MEMBERS ARE BEHIND THE
PRESIDENT ON UKRAINE. IT'S JUST
THOSE DOMESTIC ISSUES THAT WILL
TAKE SOME TIME. THE QUESTION
STILL REMAINS WILL THEY EVER BE
ACCOMPLISHED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. THANK YOU
TO ALL OF OUR GUESTS
TO YOU OUR AUDIENCE. THANK YOU
FOR WATCHING THE FIRST STATE OF
THE UNION ADDRESS.'S PLEASE STAY
TUNED AS WE CONTINUE
RUSSIA'S ATTACK OF UKRAINE AND
ALL OTHER BREAKING NEWS STORIES
.